舟	舟	zhōu	boat
同舟共濟	同舟共济	tóng zhōu gòng jì	cross a river in the same boat (idiom); fig. having common interests/obliged to collaborate towards common goals
吳越同舟	吴越同舟	Wú Yuè tóng zhōu	Wu and Yue in the same boat (idiom); fig. cooperation between natural rivals/to collaborate towards a common end/in the same boat together
天舟座	天舟座	Tiān zhōu zuò	Argo (constellation, now divided into Carina 船底座 and Puppis 船尾座)
學如逆水行舟，不進則退	学如逆水行舟，不进则退	xué rú nì shuǐ xíng zhōu , bù jìn zé tuì	study is like rowing upstream – if you don't keep pushing forward, you fall behind
學海泛舟	学海泛舟	xué hǎi fàn zhōu	sailing on the sea of learning (idiom)
扁舟	扁舟	piān zhōu	small boat/skiff
操舟	操舟	cāo zhōu	to steer a boat
方舟	方舟	fāng zhōu	ark
木已成舟	木已成舟	mù yǐ chéng zhōu	lit. the timber has been turned into a boat already (idiom)/fig. what is done cannot be undone
水能載舟，亦能覆舟	水能载舟，亦能覆舟	shuǐ néng zài zhōu , yì néng fù zhōu	lit. water may keep the boat afloat but may also sink it (proverb)/fig. the people can support a regime or overturn it/if sth is used properly, one can benefit from it, otherwise it can do harm/things can be double-edged
泛舟	泛舟	fàn zhōu	to go boating
獨木舟	独木舟	dú mù zhōu	dugout/canoe/kayak
破釜沉舟	破釜沉舟	pò fǔ chén zhōu	lit. to break the cauldrons and sink the boats (idiom); fig. to cut off one's means of retreat/to burn one's boats
神舟	神舟	Shén zhōu	Shenzhou (spacecraft)/Hasee (computer manufacturer)
神舟號飛船	神舟号飞船	Shén zhōu hào fēi chuán	Shenzhou (spacecraft)
神舟電腦	神舟电脑	shén zhōu diàn nǎo	Hasee (computer manufacturer)
刻舟求劍	刻舟求剑	kè zhōu qiú jiàn	lit. a notch on the side of a boat to locate a sword dropped overboard (idiom); fig. an action made pointless by changed circumstances
舟山	舟山	Zhōu shān	Zhoushan prefecture level city in Zhejiang (consisting solely of islands)/formerly Dinghai 定海
舟山市	舟山市	Zhōu shān shì	Zhoushan prefecture level city in Zhejiang (consisting solely of islands)/formerly Dinghai 定海
舟山群島	舟山群岛	Zhōu shān Qún dǎo	Zhoushan Island
舟曲	舟曲	Zhōu qǔ	Zhugqu or Zhouqu county in Gannan Tibetan autonomous prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gān nán Zàng zú zì zhì zhōu], Gansu
舟曲縣	舟曲县	Zhōu qǔ xiàn	Zhugqu or Zhouqu county in Gannan Tibetan autonomous prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gān nán Zàng zú zì zhì zhōu], Gansu
舟船	舟船	zhōu chuán	boat
舟車勞頓	舟车劳顿	zhōu chē láo dùn	travel-worn
蕩舟	荡舟	dàng zhōu	to row a boat
蘭舟	兰舟	lán zhōu	lit. boat made of lily magnolia wood/poetic term for boat
賽龍舟	赛龙舟	sài lóng zhōu	to race dragon boats
載舟覆舟	载舟覆舟	zài zhōu fù zhōu	to carry a boat or to overturn a boat (idiom); fig. The people can support a regime or overturn it.
逆水行舟	逆水行舟	nì shuǐ xíng zhōu	lit. navigating a boat against the current (idiom)/fig. in a tough environment (one needs to work hard)
逆水行舟，不進則退	逆水行舟，不进则退	nì shuǐ xíng zhōu , bù jìn zé tuì	like rowing a boat upstream, if you stop moving forward you fall back (idiom)
順水推舟	顺水推舟	shùn shuǐ tuī zhōu	lit. to push the boat with the current/fig. to take advantage of the situation for one's own benefit
風雨同舟	风雨同舟	fēng yǔ tóng zhōu	lit. in the same boat under wind and rain (idiom); fig. to stick together in hard times
飛舟	飞舟	fēi zhōu	fast boat
龍舟	龙舟	lóng zhōu	dragon boat/imperial boat
