一不做，二不休	一不做，二不休	yī bù zuò , èr bù xiū	don't do it, or don't rest (idiom); either give up, or go through to the end/Since we started, we must carry it through whatever happens./in for a penny, in for a pound
一人得道，雞犬升天	一人得道，鸡犬升天	yī rén dé dào , jī quǎn shēng tiān	lit. when a man achieves the Dao, his poultry and dogs rise to Heaven (idiom)/fig. to ride on sb else's success/Once one man gets a government position, all his cronies get in too/Once sb has cracked the problem, every Tom, Dick and Harry can do it
一個天南，一個地北	一个天南，一个地北	yī ge tiān nán , yī ge dì běi	to live miles apart (idiom)
一傳十，十傳百	一传十，十传百	yī chuán shí , shí chuán bǎi	news pass quickly from mouth to mouth (idiom)/an infectious disease spreads quickly (old meaning)
一分耕耘，一分收穫	一分耕耘，一分收获	yī fēn gēng yún , yī fēn shōu huò	you get what you put in/you reap what you sow
一則以喜，一則以憂	一则以喜，一则以忧	yī zé yǐ xǐ , yī zé yǐ yōu	happy on the one hand, but worried on the other (idiom)
一夫當關，萬夫莫開	一夫当关，万夫莫开	yī fū dāng guān , wàn fū mò kāi	one man can hold the pass against ten thousand enemies (idiom)
一寸光陰一寸金，寸金難買寸光陰	一寸光阴一寸金，寸金难买寸光阴	yī cùn guāng yīn yī cùn jīn , cùn jīn nán mǎi cùn guāng yīn	lit. An interval of time is worth an ounce of gold, money cannot buy you time. (idiom)/fig. Time is precious and must be treasured.
一手交錢，一手交貨	一手交钱，一手交货	yī shǒu jiāo qián , yī shǒu jiāo huò	lit. one hand exchanges the cash, the other the goods (idiom)/fig. to pay for what you want in cash/simple and direct transaction
一日不見，如隔三秋	一日不见，如隔三秋	yī rì bù jiàn , rú gé sān qiū	one day apart seems like three years (idiom)
一日為師，終身為父	一日为师，终身为父	yī rì wéi shī , zhōng shēn wéi fù	lit. teacher for one day, father for ever (idiom)
一是一，二是二	一是一，二是二	yī shì yī , èr shì èr	lit. one is one, two is two (idiom)/fig. things are (or ought to be) perfectly clear-cut/unequivocal
一朝被蛇咬，十年怕井繩	一朝被蛇咬，十年怕井绳	yī zhāo bèi shé yǎo , shí nián pà jǐng shéng	once bitten by a snake, ten years in fear of a well rope/once bitten, twice shy (idiom)
一次生，兩次熟	一次生，两次熟	yī cì shēng , liǎng cì shú	unfamiliar at first but you get used to it/strangers are first meeting, but soon friends/an acquired taste
一波未平，一波又起	一波未平，一波又起	yī bō wèi píng , yī bō yòu qǐ	before the first wave subsides, a new wave rises (idiom); a new problem arises before the old is solved/many twists and turns to a story/one thing after another
一瓶子不響，半瓶子晃蕩	一瓶子不响，半瓶子晃荡	yī píng zi bù xiǎng , bàn píng zi huàng dang	lit. a full bottle makes no sound; a half-filled bottle sloshes (idiom)/fig. empty vessels make the most noise
一而再，再而三	一而再，再而三	yī ér zài , zài ér sān	again and again
一著不慎，滿盤皆輸	一着不慎，满盘皆输	yī zhāo bù shèn , mǎn pán jiē shū	One careless move and the whole game is lost. (idiom)
一言既出，駟馬難追	一言既出，驷马难追	yī yán jì chū , sì mǎ nán zhuī	lit. once said, a team of horses cannot unsay it (idiom); a promise must be kept
一部二十四史，不知從何說起	一部二十四史，不知从何说起	yī bù èr shí sì shǐ , bù zhī cóng hé shuō qǐ	It's a long and intricate story, I hardly know where to start.
丈二和尚，摸不著頭腦	丈二和尚，摸不着头脑	zhàng èr hé shang , mō bu zháo tóu nǎo	lit. like a three-meter high monk, you can't rub his head (idiom)/fig. at a total loss
三人行，則必有我師	三人行，则必有我师	sān rén xíng , zé bì yǒu wǒ shī	If three walk together, one of them can teach me sth (Confucius)
三人行，必有我師	三人行，必有我师	sān rén xíng , bì yǒu wǒ shī	lit. if three walk together, one can be my teacher (idiom, from the Analects of Confucius)/you have sth to learn from everyone
三個臭皮匠，勝過一個諸葛亮	三个臭皮匠，胜过一个诸葛亮	sān gè chòu pí jiang , shèng guò yī gè Zhū gě Liàng	variant of 三個臭皮匠，賽過一個諸葛亮|三个臭皮匠，赛过一个诸葛亮[sān gè chòu pí jiang , sài guò yī gè Zhū gě Liàng]
三個臭皮匠，合成一個諸葛亮	三个臭皮匠，合成一个诸葛亮	sān gè chòu pí jiang , hé chéng yī gè Zhū gě Liàng	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom
三個臭皮匠，賽過一個諸葛亮	三个臭皮匠，赛过一个诸葛亮	sān gè chòu pí jiang , sài guò yī gè Zhū gě Liàng	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom/wisdom of the masses exceeds that of any individual
三個臭皮匠，賽過諸葛亮	三个臭皮匠，赛过诸葛亮	sān gè chòu pí jiang , sài guò Zhū gě Liàng	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom/wisdom of the masses exceeds that of any individual
三個臭皮匠，頂個諸葛亮	三个臭皮匠，顶个诸葛亮	sān gè chòu pí jiang , dǐng gè Zhū gě Liàng	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom/wisdom of the masses exceeds that of any individual
三十六計，走為上策	三十六计，走为上策	sān shí liù jì , zǒu wéi shàng cè	Of the Thirty-Six Stratagems, fleeing is best./see also 三十六計|三十六计[sān shí liù jì]
三十六計，走為上計	三十六计，走为上计	sān shí liù jì , zǒu wéi shàng jì	see 三十六計，走為上策|三十六计，走为上策[sān shí liù jì , zǒu wéi shàng cè]
三十年河東，三十年河西	三十年河东，三十年河西	sān shí nián hé dōng , sān shí nián hé xī	the river flows thirty years to the East, thirty years to the West (proverb)/change is the only constant
三天不打，上房揭瓦	三天不打，上房揭瓦	sān tiān bù dǎ , shàng fáng jiē wǎ	three days without a beating, and a child will scale the roof to rip the tiles (idiom)/spare the rod, spoil the child
三天打魚，兩天曬網	三天打鱼，两天晒网	sān tiān dǎ yú , liǎng tiān shài wǎng	lit. to fish for three days and sun-dry the nets for two days (proverb)/fig. not to persevere in doing sth/to do sth by fits and starts
上一次當，學一次乖	上一次当，学一次乖	shàng yī cì dàng , xué yī cì guāi	to take sth as a lesson for next time (idiom)/once bitten, twice shy
上天無路，入地無門	上天无路，入地无门	shàng tiān wú lù , rù dì wú mén	lit. there is no road to the sky, nor door into the earth (idiom)/fig. to be at the end of one's rope/to be trapped in a hopeless situation
上有天堂，下有蘇杭	上有天堂，下有苏杭	shàng yǒu tiān táng , xià yǒu Sū Háng	lit. there is heaven above, and there is 蘇杭|苏杭[Sū Háng] below (idiom)/fig. the beauty and affluence of Suzhou and Hangzhou is comparable with heaven
上有政策，下有對策	上有政策，下有对策	shàng yǒu zhèng cè , xià yǒu duì cè	The higher ups have policies while the lower downs have their own ways of getting around them. (idiom)
不乾不淨，吃了沒病	不干不净，吃了没病	bù gān bù jìng , chī le méi bìng	a little dirt never killed anybody (proverb)/a couple of germs won't do you any harm
不以物喜，不以己悲	不以物喜，不以己悲	bù yǐ wù xǐ , bù yǐ jǐ bēi	not to become attached to material things, not to pity oneself
不以規矩，不能成方圓	不以规矩，不能成方圆	bù yǐ guī ju , bù néng chéng fāng yuán	without rules, nothing can be done (idiom, from Mencius); one must follow some rules
不做虧心事，不怕鬼敲門	不做亏心事，不怕鬼敲门	bù zuò kuī xīn shì , bù pà guǐ qiāo mén	He who never wrongs others does not fear the knock in the night./Rest with a clear conscience.
不入虎穴，焉得虎子	不入虎穴，焉得虎子	bù rù hǔ xué , yān dé hǔ zǐ	How do you catch the tiger cub without entering the tiger's lair? (idiom); Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
不孝有三，無後為大	不孝有三，无后为大	bù xiào yǒu sān , wú hòu wéi dà	There are three ways to be unfilial; having no sons is the worst. (citation from Mencius 孟子[Mèng zǐ])
不怕一萬，就怕萬一	不怕一万，就怕万一	bù pà yī wàn , jiù pà wàn yī	better to be safe than sorry (proverb)/to be prepared just in case
不怕不識貨，只怕貨比貨	不怕不识货，只怕货比货	bù pà bù shí huò , zhǐ pà huò bǐ huò	lit. don't worry about not knowing goods, but about comparing them (proverb)/fig. goods' (or person's) true value can only be determined through comparison
不怕不識貨，就怕貨比貨	不怕不识货，就怕货比货	bù pà bù shí huò , jiù pà huò bǐ huò	lit. don't worry about not knowing goods, but about comparing them (proverb)/fig. goods' (or person's) true value can only be determined through comparison
不怕官，只怕管	不怕官，只怕管	bù pà guān , zhǐ pà guǎn	lit. it is not an official to be feared, but a person in direct control over sb (proverb)/fig. to be obliged to comply with people in authority
不怕慢，就怕站	不怕慢，就怕站	bù pà màn , jiù pà zhàn	it's better to make slow progress than no progress at all (proverb)
不怕神一樣的對手，就怕豬一樣的隊友	不怕神一样的对手，就怕猪一样的队友	bù pà shén yī yàng de duì shǒu , jiù pà zhū yī yàng de duì yǒu	a boneheaded teammate can do you more harm than the most formidable opponent (idiom)
不求有功，但求無過	不求有功，但求无过	bù qiú yǒu gōng , dàn qiú wú guò	lit. not aiming to achieve the best possible result, but rather trying to avoid making mistakes (idiom)/fig. to take a risk-averse approach
不管白貓黑貓，捉住老鼠就是好貓	不管白猫黑猫，捉住老鼠就是好猫	bù guǎn bái māo hēi māo , zhuō zhù lǎo shǔ jiù shì hǎo māo	it doesn't matter whether a cat is white or black; as long as it catches mice it's a good cat (variant of a Sichuanese saying used in a speech by Deng Xiaoping 鄧小平|邓小平[Dèng Xiǎo píng] in 1962, usually associated with his economic reforms starting in 1978, in which pragmatism was favored over ideological purity)
不經一事，不長一智	不经一事，不长一智	bù jīng yī shì , bù zhǎng yī zhì	You can't gain knowledge without practical experience (idiom); wisdom only comes with experience
不聽老人言，吃虧在眼前	不听老人言，吃亏在眼前	bù tīng lǎo rén yán , chī kuī zài yǎn qián	(idiom) ignore your elders at your peril
不自由，毋寧死	不自由，毋宁死	bù zì yóu , wú nìng sǐ	give me liberty or give me death
世上無難事，只怕有心人	世上无难事，只怕有心人	shì shàng wú nán shì , zhǐ pà yǒu xīn rén	there is nothing the determined person can't accomplish (idiom)/persistence will overcome
乾打雷，不下雨	干打雷，不下雨	gān dǎ léi , bù xià yǔ	all thunder but no rain (idiom)/a lot of noise but no action
事不關己，高高掛起	事不关己，高高挂起	shì bù guān jǐ , gāo gāo guà qǐ	to feel unconcerned and let matters rest (idiom)
二虎相鬥，必有一傷	二虎相斗，必有一伤	èr hǔ xiāng dòu , bì yǒu yī shāng	lit. when two tigers fight, one is sure to be wounded (idiom)/fig. if it comes to a fight, someone will get hurt
人不可貌相，海水不可斗量	人不可貌相，海水不可斗量	rén bù kě mào xiàng , hǎi shuǐ bù kě dǒu liáng	you can't judge a person by appearance, just as you can't measure the sea with a pint pot (idiom)
人不為己，天誅地滅	人不为己，天诛地灭	rén bù wèi jǐ , tiān zhū dì miè	Look out for yourself, or heaven and earth will combine to destroy you./Every man for himself, and the Devil take the hindmost.
人之初，性本善	人之初，性本善	rén zhī chū , xìng běn shàn	man at birth is fundamentally good in nature/the first two lines of Three Character Classic 三字經|三字经[Sān zì Jīng]
人之將死，其言也善	人之将死，其言也善	rén zhī jiāng sǐ , qí yán yě shàn	words of a man on his deathbed always come from the heart (proverb)
人在江湖，身不由己	人在江湖，身不由己	rén zài jiāng hú , shēn bù yóu jǐ	you can't always do as you like/one has to compromise in this world (idiom)
人外有人，天外有天	人外有人，天外有天	rén wài yǒu rén , tiān wài yǒu tiān	in the wider world there are people more talented than oneself (idiom)
人往高處爬，水往低處流	人往高处爬，水往低处流	rén wǎng gāo chù pá , shuǐ wǎng dī chù liú	see 人往高處走，水往低處流|人往高处走，水往低处流[rén wǎng gāo chù zǒu , shuǐ wǎng dī chù liú]
人往高處走，水往低處流	人往高处走，水往低处流	rén wǎng gāo chù zǒu , shuǐ wǎng dī chù liú	man seeks his way up just as water seeks its way down (idiom)/one should constantly strive to make progress
人有失手，馬有失蹄	人有失手，马有失蹄	rén yǒu shī shǒu , mǎ yǒu shī tí	lit. just as humans make mistakes, so can a horse stumble (idiom)/fig. everyone makes mistakes/even the best fall down sometimes
人比人，氣死人	人比人，气死人	rén bǐ rén , qì sǐ rén	constantly comparing oneself to others will only make one angry (proverb)
人為刀俎，我為魚肉	人为刀俎，我为鱼肉	rén wéi dāo zǔ , wǒ wéi yú ròu	lit. to be the meat on sb's chopping block (idiom)/fig. to be at sb's mercy
人為財死，鳥為食亡	人为财死，鸟为食亡	rén wèi cái sǐ , niǎo wèi shí wáng	lit. human beings will die for riches, just as birds will for food (idiom)/fig. man will do anything in his means to become rich
人無遠慮，必有近憂	人无远虑，必有近忧	rén wú yuǎn lǜ , bì yǒu jìn yōu	He who gives no thought to far-flung problems soon finds suffering nearby (idiom, from Analects)./Smug concentration on the here and now will lead to future sorrow.
人生一世，草木一春	人生一世，草木一春	rén shēng yī shì , cǎo mù yī chūn	Man has but one life, grass but one spring (idiom). fig. the brevity of human existence
人生短暫，學術無涯	人生短暂，学术无涯	rén shēng duǎn zàn , xué shù wú yá	Life is short, learning is limitless/Ars longa, vita brevis
人非生而知之者，孰能無惑	人非生而知之者，孰能无惑	rén fēi shēng ér zhī zhī zhě , shú néng wú huò	Knowledge is not innate to man, how can we overcome doubt?/We are not born with knowledge, how does one achieve maturity? (i.e. without guidance from a teacher - Tang dynasty essayist Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈)
仁者見仁，智者見智	仁者见仁，智者见智	rén zhě jiàn rén , zhì zhě jiàn zhì	The benevolent sees benevolence, the wise sees wisdom./Different views are admissible. (idiom)
仇人相見，分外眼紅	仇人相见，分外眼红	chóu rén xiāng jiàn , fèn wài yǎn hóng	when the enemies come face to face, their eyes blaze with hatred (idiom)
以其人之道，還治其人之身	以其人之道，还治其人之身	yǐ qí rén zhī dào , huán zhì qí rén zhī shēn	to use an opponent's own methods to obtain retribution (idiom, from Song dynasty neo-Confucianist Zhu Xi 朱熹); to get revenge by playing sb back at his own game/to give sb a taste of his own medicine
以子之矛，攻子之盾	以子之矛，攻子之盾	yǐ zǐ zhī máo , gōng zǐ zhī dùn	lit. use sb's spear to attack his shield (idiom, derived from Han Feizi 韓非子|韩非子); turning a weapon against its owner/fig. to attack an opponent using his own devices/hoist with his own petard
以小人之心，度君子之腹	以小人之心，度君子之腹	yǐ xiǎo rén zhī xīn , duó jūn zǐ zhī fù	to gauge the heart of a gentleman with one's own mean measure (idiom)
以直報怨，以德報德	以直报怨，以德报德	yǐ zhí bào yuàn , yǐ dé bào dé	to repay kindness with kindness, and repay enmity with justice (idiom, from Analects)
以眼還眼，以牙還牙	以眼还眼，以牙还牙	yǐ yǎn huán yǎn , yǐ yá huán yá	an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth (idiom)/fig. to use the enemy's methods against him/to give sb a taste of his own medicine
以言代法，以權壓法	以言代法，以权压法	yǐ yán dài fǎ , yǐ quán yā fǎ	to substitute one's words for the law and abuse power to crush it (idiom); completely lawless behavior/Might makes right.
任憑風浪起，穩坐釣魚臺	任凭风浪起，稳坐钓鱼台	rèn píng fēng làng qǐ , wěn zuò diào yú tái	lit. sitting at ease in a fishing boat despite wind and storm (idiom); to stay calm during tense situation/a cool head in a crisis
你走你的陽關道，我過我的獨木橋	你走你的阳关道，我过我的独木桥	nǐ zǒu nǐ de Yáng guān Dào , wǒ guò wǒ de dú mù qiáo	lit. you hit the high road, I'll cross the log bridge (idiom)/fig. you go your way, I'll go mine/you do it your way, I'll do it mine
來得容易，去得快	来得容易，去得快	lái de róng yì , qù de kuài	Easy come, easy go. (idiom)
來無影，去無蹤	来无影，去无踪	lái wú yǐng , qù wú zōng	lit. come without a shadow, leave without a footprint (idiom); to come and go without a trace
來者不善，善者不來	来者不善，善者不来	lái zhě bù shàn , shàn zhě bù lái	He who comes is surely ill-intentioned, no-one well-meaning will come (idiom)./Be careful not to trust foreigners./Beware of Greeks bearing gifts!
兄弟鬩於墻，外禦其侮	兄弟阋于墙，外御其侮	xiōng dì xì yú qiáng , wài yù qí wǔ	internal disunity dissolves at the threat of an invasion from outside (idiom)
先天下之憂而憂，後天下之樂而樂	先天下之忧而忧，后天下之乐而乐	xiān tiān xià zhī yōu ér yōu , hòu tiān xià zhī lè ér lè	The first concern is affairs of state, enjoying the pleasure comes later. Quotation from essay On Yueyang Tower 岳陽樓記|岳阳楼记 by Song writer Fan Zhongyan 范仲淹[Fàn Zhòng yān]
兒不嫌母醜，狗不嫌家貧	儿不嫌母丑，狗不嫌家贫	ér bù xián mǔ chǒu , gǒu bù xián jiā pín	a son won't abandon his mother for being ugly, just as a dog won't abandon its owner for being poor (proverb)
內行看門道，外行看熱鬧	内行看门道，外行看热闹	nèi háng kàn mén dao , wài háng kàn rè nao	while the connoisseur recognizes the artistry, the layman simply enjoys the show
兩國相爭，不斬來使	两国相争，不斩来使	liǎng guó xiāng zhēng , bù zhǎn lái shǐ	when two kingdoms are at war, they don't execute envoys (idiom)
兩虎相爭，必有一傷	两虎相争，必有一伤	liǎng hǔ xiāng zhēng , bì yǒu yī shāng	if two tigers fight, one will get injured (idiom)/if you start a war, someone is bound to get hurt
兩虎相鬥，必有一傷	两虎相斗，必有一伤	liǎng hǔ xiāng dòu , bì yǒu yī shāng	when two tigers fight, one will get injured (idiom)/if it comes to a fight, someone will get hurt.
八仙過海，各顯其能	八仙过海，各显其能	Bā xiān guò hǎi , gè xiǎn qí néng	see 八仙過海，各顯神通|八仙过海，各显神通[Bā xiān guò hǎi , gè xiǎn shén tōng]
八仙過海，各顯神通	八仙过海，各显神通	Bā xiān guò hǎi , gè xiǎn shén tōng	lit. the Eight Immortals cross the sea, each showing his own special talent (idiom)/fig. (of each individual in a group) to give full play to one's unique capabilities
公說公有理，婆說婆有理	公说公有理，婆说婆有理	gōng shuō gōng yǒu lǐ , pó shuō pó yǒu lǐ	both sides claim they're right (idiom)
兵來將擋，水來土掩	兵来将挡，水来土掩	bīng lái jiàng dǎng , shuǐ lái tǔ yǎn	counter soldiers with arms, water with an earth weir (idiom); different situations call for different action/to adopt measures appropriate to the actual situation
兵來將敵，水來土堰	兵来将敌，水来土堰	bīng lái jiàng dí , shuǐ lái tǔ yàn	counter soldiers with arms, water with an earth weir (idiom); different situations call for different action/to adopt measures appropriate to the actual situation
兵馬未動，糧草先行	兵马未动，粮草先行	bīng mǎ wèi dòng , liáng cǎo xiān xíng	before the troops move, fodder and provisions go first (idiom); logistics comes before military maneuvers/an army marches on its stomach
冤有頭，債有主	冤有头，债有主	yuān yǒu tóu , zhài yǒu zhǔ	for every grievance someone is responsible, for every debt there is a debtor (idiom)/when settling disputes one should not involve third parties
冰凍三尺，非一日之寒	冰冻三尺，非一日之寒	bīng dòng sān chǐ , fēi yī rì zhī hán	three feet of ice does not form in a single day (idiom); Rome wasn't built in a day
冰炭不言，冷熱自明	冰炭不言，冷热自明	bīng tàn bù yán , lěng rè zì míng	ice or coals, whether hot or cold goes without saying (idiom); fig. sincerity is not expressed in words
出其不意，攻其不備	出其不意，攻其不备	chū qí bù yì , gōng qí bù bèi	to catch an enemy off guard with a surprise attack (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sūn zǐ Bīng fǎ])
出滿勤，幹滿點	出满勤，干满点	chū mǎn qín , gàn mǎn diǎn	to be assiduous and work full hours
刀不磨要生銹，人不學要落後	刀不磨要生锈，人不学要落后	dāo bù mó yào shēng xiù , rén bù xué yào luò hòu	a blade will get rusty if it is not sharpened; a man will fall behind if he doesn't study (idiom)
刀子嘴巴，豆腐心	刀子嘴巴，豆腐心	dāo zi zuǐ ba , dòu fu xīn	lit. knife mouth but heart of bean curd; sharp tongue concealing a caring heart
刀子嘴，豆腐心	刀子嘴，豆腐心	dāo zi zuǐ , dòu fu xīn	to have a sharp tongue but a soft heart (idiom)
分久必合，合久必分	分久必合，合久必分	fēn jiǔ bì hé , hé jiǔ bì fēn	lit. that which is long divided must unify, and that which is long unified must divide (idiom, from 三國演義|三国演义[Sān guó Yǎn yì])/fig. things are constantly changing
前不巴村，後不巴店	前不巴村，后不巴店	qián bù bā cūn , hòu bù bā diàn	see 前不著村，後不著店|前不着村，后不着店[qián bù zháo cūn , hòu bù zháo diàn]
前不著村，後不著店	前不着村，后不着店	qián bù zháo cūn , hòu bù zháo diàn	lit. no village ahead and no inn behind (idiom)/fig. to be stranded in the middle of nowhere/to be in a predicament
前不見古人，後不見來者	前不见古人，后不见来者	qián bù jiàn gǔ rén , hòu bù jiàn lái zhě	unique/unprecedented (idiom)
前事不忘，後事之師	前事不忘，后事之师	qián shì bù wàng , hòu shì zhī shī	don't forget past events, they can guide you in future (idiom); benefit from past experience
前人栽樹，後人乘涼	前人栽树，后人乘凉	qián rén zāi shù , hòu rén chéng liáng	to enjoy the benefits of the hard work of one's predecessors. (idiom)
前車之覆，後車之鑒	前车之覆，后车之鉴	qián chē zhī fù , hòu chē zhī jiàn	lit. the cart in front overturns, a warning to the following cart (idiom); fig. draw lesson from the failure of one's predecessor/learn from past mistake/once bitten twice shy
前門打虎，後門打狼	前门打虎，后门打狼	qián mén dǎ hǔ , hòu mén dǎ láng	to beat a tiger from the front door, only to have a wolf come in at the back (idiom); fig. facing one problem after another
前門拒虎，後門進狼	前门拒虎，后门进狼	qián mén jù hǔ , hòu mén jìn láng	to beat a tiger from the front door, only to have a wolf come in at the back (idiom); fig. facing one problem after another
勝不驕，敗不餒	胜不骄，败不馁	shèng bù jiāo , bài bù něi	no arrogance in victory, no despair in defeat
十年樹木，百年樹人	十年树木，百年树人	shí nián shù mù , bǎi nián shù rén	It takes ten years to nurture a tree, but a hundred years to train a man (idiom). A good education program takes a long time to develop.
千軍易得，一將難求	千军易得，一将难求	qiān jūn yì dé , yī jiàng nán qiú	Easy to raise an army of one thousand, but hard to find a good general. (idiom)
千里之堤，潰於蟻穴	千里之堤，溃于蚁穴	qiān lǐ zhī dī , kuì yú yǐ xué	an ant hole may cause the collapse of a great dike (idiom)/huge damage may result from a moment's negligence
千里之行，始於足下	千里之行，始于足下	qiān lǐ zhī xíng , shǐ yú zú xià	lit. a thousand mile journey begins with the first step/fig. big accomplishments come from an accumulation of little achievements made one by one
千里搭長棚，沒有不散的宴席	千里搭长棚，没有不散的宴席	qiān lǐ dā cháng péng , méi yǒu bù sàn de yàn xí	even if you build a thousand-league awning for it, every banquet must come to an end (idiom)
千里送鵝毛，禮輕人意重	千里送鹅毛，礼轻人意重	qiān lǐ sòng é máo , lǐ qīng rén yì zhòng	goose feather sent from afar, a slight present but weighty meaning (idiom); It's not the present the counts, it's the thought behind it.
千里送鵝毛，禮輕情意重	千里送鹅毛，礼轻情意重	qiān lǐ sòng é máo , lǐ qīng qíng yì zhòng	goose feather sent from afar, a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it (idiom); It's not the gift that counts, but the thought behind it.
千里馬常有，而伯樂不常有	千里马常有，而伯乐不常有	qiān lǐ mǎ cháng yǒu , ér Bó Lè bù cháng yǒu	lit. there are many swift horses, but very few who can spot them (idiom)/fig. many have talent, but few can recognize talent when they see it
卑之，毋甚高論	卑之，毋甚高论	bēi zhī , wú shèn gāo lùn	my opinion, nothing very involved (idiom, humble expression); my humble point is a familiar opinion/what I say is really nothing out of the ordinary
卑之，無甚高論	卑之，无甚高论	bēi zhī , wú shèn gāo lùn	my opinion, nothing very involved (idiom, humble expression); my humble point is a familiar opinion/what I say is really nothing out of the ordinary
又要馬兒好，又要馬兒不吃草	又要马儿好，又要马儿不吃草	yòu yào mǎ r5 hǎo , yòu yào mǎ r5 bù chī cǎo	see 又要馬兒跑，又要馬兒不吃草|又要马儿跑，又要马儿不吃草[yòu yào mǎ r5 pǎo , yòu yào mǎ r5 bù chī cǎo]
又要馬兒跑，又要馬兒不吃草	又要马儿跑，又要马儿不吃草	yòu yào mǎ r5 pǎo , yòu yào mǎ r5 bù chī cǎo	lit. you can't expect the horse to run fast but not let it graze (idiom)/fig. you can't have your cake and eat it, too
及時處理，事半功倍	及时处理，事半功倍	jí shí chǔ lǐ , shì bàn gōng bèi	timely handling doubles the effect and halves the effort/the right approach saves effort and leads to better results/a stitch in time saves nine
取之不盡，用之不竭	取之不尽，用之不竭	qǔ zhī bù jìn , yòng zhī bù jié	limitless supply (of)/inexhaustible
取其精華，去其糟粕	取其精华，去其糟粕	qǔ qí jīng huá , qù qí zāo pò	take the cream, discard the dross (political and educational slogan)/keep what is good, discard the rest/You need to be selective when studying./In modernizing the country, don't accept uncritically all foreign ideas.
只可意會，不可言傳	只可意会，不可言传	zhǐ kě yì huì , bù kě yán chuán	can be understood, but not described (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子); mysterious and subtle
只知其一，不知其二	只知其一，不知其二	zhǐ zhī qí yī , bù zhī qí èr	to know the first, but not know the second (idiom); only partial information
只要功夫深，鐵杵磨成針	只要功夫深，铁杵磨成针	zhǐ yào gōng fu shēn , tiě chǔ mó chéng zhēn	If you work at it hard enough, you can grind an iron bar into a needle./cf idiom 磨杵成針|磨杵成针, to grind an iron bar down to a fine needle (idiom); fig. to persevere in a difficult task/to study diligently
只許州官放火，不許百姓點燈	只许州官放火，不许百姓点灯	zhǐ xǔ zhōu guān fàng huǒ , bù xǔ bǎi xìng diǎn dēng	only the official is allowed to light the fire/Gods may do what cattle may not/quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi
可以意會，不可言傳	可以意会，不可言传	kě yǐ yì huì , bù kě yán chuán	can be understood, but not described (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子); mysterious and subtle
吃一塹，長一智	吃一堑，长一智	chī yī qiàn , zhǎng yī zhì	Fall into the moat and you'll be wiser next time (idiom); One only learns from one's mistakes.
吃人家的嘴軟，拿人家的手短	吃人家的嘴软，拿人家的手短	chī rén jiā de zuǐ ruǎn , ná rén jiā de shǒu duǎn	lit. the mouth that has been fed by others is soft, the hand that has received doesn't reach (idiom)/fig. one is partial to those from whom presents have been accepted
吃得苦中苦，方為人上人	吃得苦中苦，方为人上人	chī dé kǔ zhōng kǔ , fāng wéi rén shàng rén	one cannot achieve glory and wealth without having been through trials and tribulations (proverb)/no pain, no gain
吃著碗裡，看著鍋裡	吃着碗里，看着锅里	chī zhe wǎn lǐ , kàn zhe guō lǐ	lit. eyeing what's in the pot as one eats from one's bowl (idiom)/not content with what one already has/(of men, typically) to have the wandering eye
吃著碗裡，瞧著鍋裡	吃着碗里，瞧着锅里	chī zhe wǎn lǐ , qiáo zhe guō lǐ	see 吃著碗裡，看著鍋裡|吃着碗里，看着锅里[chī zhe wǎn lǐ , kàn zhe guō lǐ]
各人自掃門前雪，莫管他家瓦上霜	各人自扫门前雪，莫管他家瓦上霜	gè rén zì sǎo mén qián xuě , mò guǎn tā jiā wǎ shàng shuāng	sweep the snow from your own door step, don't worry about the frost on your neighbor's roof (idiom)
同一個世界，同一個夢想	同一个世界，同一个梦想	tóng yī gè shì jiè , tóng yī gè mèng xiǎng	One world - one dream, motto of 2008 Beijing Olympic games
君子一言，駟馬難追	君子一言，驷马难追	jūn zǐ yī yán , sì mǎ nán zhuī	a nobleman's word is his bond (proverb)
君子坦蕩蕩，小人長戚戚	君子坦荡荡，小人长戚戚	jūn zi tǎn dàng dàng , xiǎo rén cháng qī qī	good people are at peace with themselves, (but) there is no rest for the wicked
君子報仇，十年不晚	君子报仇，十年不晚	jūn zi bào chóu , shí nián bù wǎn	lit. for a nobleman to take revenge, ten years is not too long (idiom)/fig. revenge is a dish best served cold
吾生也有涯，而知也無涯	吾生也有涯，而知也无涯	wú shēng yě yǒu yá , ér zhī yě wú yá	Life is short, learning is limitless/Ars longa, vita brevis
呼之即來，揮之即去	呼之即来，挥之即去	hū zhī jí lái , huī zhī jí qù	to come when called (idiom); ready and compliant/always at sb's beck and call
和尚打傘，無法無天	和尚打伞，无法无天	hé shang dǎ sǎn , wú fǎ wú tiān	lit. like a monk holding an umbrella — no hair, no sky (idiom) (punning on 髮|发[fà] vs 法[fǎ])/fig. defying the law and the principles of heaven/lawless
啞巴吃黃連，有苦說不出	哑巴吃黄连，有苦说不出	yǎ ba chī huáng lián , yǒu kǔ shuō bu chū	to be forced to suffer in silence (idiom)/unable to speak of one's bitter suffering/sometimes written 啞子吃黃連，有苦說不出|哑子吃黄连，有苦说不出
善有善報，惡有惡報	善有善报，恶有恶报	shàn yǒu shàn bào , è yǒu è bào	virtue has its reward, evil its retribution
善有善報，惡有惡報，若然不報時晨未到	善有善报，恶有恶报，若然不报时晨未到	shàn yǒu shàn bào , è yǒu è bào , ruò rán bù bào shí chén wèi dào	Good has its reward and evil has its recompense. The payback is just a matter of time
單絲不成線，獨木不成林	单丝不成线，独木不成林	dān sī bù chéng xiàn , dú mù bù chéng lín	one strand does not make a thread, one tree does not make a forest (idiom)
嘴上沒毛，辦事不牢	嘴上没毛，办事不牢	zuǐ shàng méi máo , bàn shì bù láo	a youth without facial hair cannot be relied upon (proverb)
嘴上無毛，辦事不牢	嘴上无毛，办事不牢	zuǐ shàng wú máo , bàn shì bù láo	see 嘴上沒毛，辦事不牢|嘴上没毛，办事不牢[zuǐ shàng méi máo , bàn shì bù láo]
四體不勤，五穀不分	四体不勤，五谷不分	sì tǐ bù qín , wǔ gǔ bù fēn	never move your four limbs, can't distinguish the five crops (idiom); living as a parasite
國家興亡，匹夫有責	国家兴亡，匹夫有责	guó jiā xīng wáng , pǐ fū yǒu zé	The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone (idiom). Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society.
在天願做比翼鳥，在地願做連理枝	在天愿做比翼鸟，在地愿做连理枝	zài tiān yuàn zuò bǐ yì niǎo , zài dì yuàn zuò lián lǐ zhī	In the sky to be two birds flying wing to wing, on earth to be two trees with branches intertwined/wishing for conjugal bliss
在家千日好，出門一時難	在家千日好，出门一时难	zài jiā qiān rì hǎo , chū mén yī shí nán	lit. at home, one can spend a thousand days in comfort, but spending a day away from home can be challenging (idiom)/fig. there's no place like home
在家靠父母，出外靠朋友	在家靠父母，出外靠朋友	zài jiā kào fù mǔ , chū wài kào péng you	one depends on one's parents when at home, and on one's friends when away from home (idiom)
在家靠父母，出門靠朋友	在家靠父母，出门靠朋友	zài jiā kào fù mǔ , chū mén kào péng you	one depends on one's parents when at home, and on one's friends when away from home (idiom)
城門失火，殃及池魚	城门失火，殃及池鱼	chéng mén shī huǒ , yāng jí chí yú	a fire in the city gates is also a calamity for the fish in the moat (idiom); the bystander will also suffer/fig. you can't escape responsibility for your actions/ask not for whom the bell tolls - it tolls for thee
士為知己者死，女為悅己者容	士为知己者死，女为悦己者容	shì wèi zhī jǐ zhě sǐ , nǚ wèi yuè jǐ zhě róng	a true gentleman will sacrifice his life for a friend who understands him, as a woman makes herself beautiful for her sweetheart
大事化小，小事化了	大事化小，小事化了	dà shì huà xiǎo , xiǎo shì huà liǎo	to turn big problems into small ones, and small problems into no problems at all (idiom)
大勇若怯，大智若愚	大勇若怯，大智若愚	dà yǒng ruò qiè , dà zhì ruò yú	a great hero may appear timid, the wise may appear stupid (idiom); the general public may not recognize great talent
大處著眼，小處著手	大处着眼，小处着手	dà chù zhuó yǎn , xiǎo chù zhuó shǒu	think of the big picture, start with the little things (idiom)
大難不死，必有後福	大难不死，必有后福	dà nàn bù sǐ , bì yǒu hòu fú	one is bound for good fortune after surviving a great disaster (proverb)
天下無難事，只怕有心人	天下无难事，只怕有心人	tiān xià wú nán shì , zhǐ pà yǒu xīn rén	lit. nothing is difficult on this earth, if your mind is set (idiom)
天下興亡，匹夫有責	天下兴亡，匹夫有责	tiān xià xīng wáng , pǐ fū yǒu zé	The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone (idiom). Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society.
天低吳楚，眼空無物	天低吴楚，眼空无物	tiān dī Wú Chǔ , yǎn kōng wú wù	the sky hangs low over the Yangtze, empty as far as the eye can see (idiom); nothing to see to the broad horizon
天外有天，人外有人	天外有天，人外有人	tiān wài yǒu tiān , rén wài yǒu rén	see 人外有人，天外有天[rén wài yǒu rén , tiān wài yǒu tiān]
天有不測風雲，人有旦夕禍福	天有不测风云，人有旦夕祸福	tiān yǒu bù cè fēng yún , rén yǒu dàn xī huò fú	fortune as unpredictable as the weather, every day may bring fortune or calamity (idiom); sth unexpected may happen at any moment
天網恢恢，疏而不失	天网恢恢，疏而不失	tiān wǎng huī huī , shū ér bù shī	lit. heaven's net has wide meshes, but nothing escapes it (idiom, from Laozi 73)/fig. the way of Heaven is fair, but the guilty will not escape/you can't run from the long arm of the law
天網恢恢，疏而不漏	天网恢恢，疏而不漏	tiān wǎng huī huī , shū ér bù lòu	lit. heaven's net has wide meshes, but nothing escapes it (idiom, from Laozi 73)/fig. the way of Heaven is fair, but the guilty will not escape/you can't run from the long arm of the law
天要落雨，娘要嫁人	天要落雨，娘要嫁人	tiān yào luò yǔ , niáng yào jià rén	the rain will fall, the womenfolk will marry (idiom)/fig. the natural order of things/something you can't go against
太公釣魚，願者上鉤	太公钓鱼，愿者上钩	tài gōng diào yú , yuàn zhě shàng gōu	Jiang Ziya is fishing, if you want take the hook (idiom, refers to early sage 姜子牙 fishing with no bait and the hook above the water); to put one's head in the noose
失之東隅，收之桑榆	失之东隅，收之桑榆	shī zhī dōng yú , shōu zhī sāng yú	to lose at sunrise but gain at sunset (idiom)/to compensate later for one's earlier loss/what you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts
失之毫厘，謬以千里	失之毫厘，谬以千里	shī zhī háo lí , miù yǐ qiān lǐ	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失之毫釐，差之千里	失之毫厘，差之千里	shī zhī háo lí , chà zhī qiān lǐ	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失之毫釐，差以千里	失之毫厘，差以千里	shī zhī háo lí , chà yǐ qiān lǐ	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
好事不出門，惡事傳千里	好事不出门，恶事传千里	hǎo shì bù chū mén , è shì chuán qiān lǐ	lit. good deeds do not go beyond the door, evil deeds spread a thousand miles/a good deed goes unnoticed, but scandal spreads fast (idiom)
好借好還，再借不難	好借好还，再借不难	hǎo jiè hǎo huán , zài jiè bù nán	see 有借有還，再借不難|有借有还，再借不难 [yǒu jiè yǒu huán , zài jiè bù nán]
好好學習，天天向上	好好学习，天天向上	hǎo hǎo xué xí , tiān tiān xiàng shàng	study hard and every day you will improve (idiom)
好學近乎知，力行近乎仁，知恥近乎勇	好学近乎知，力行近乎仁，知耻近乎勇	hào xué jìn hū zhī , lì xíng jìn hū rén , zhī chǐ jìn hū yǒng	to love learning is akin to knowledge, to study diligently is akin to benevolence, to know shame is akin to courage (Confucius)
如人飲水，冷暖自知	如人饮水，冷暖自知	rú rén yǐn shuǐ , lěng nuǎn zì zhī	the person who drinks it knows best whether the water is hot or cold (Zen proverb); self-awareness comes from within/to know best by personal experience
姜太公釣魚，願者上鉤	姜太公钓鱼，愿者上钩	Jiāng tài gōng diào yú , yuàn zhě shàng gōu	Jiang Ziya is fishing, if you want it, take the hook (idiom, refers to early sage 姜子牙 fishing with no bait and the hook above the water); to put one's head in the noose
嫁雞隨雞，嫁狗隨狗	嫁鸡随鸡，嫁狗随狗	jià jī suí jī , jià gǒu suí gǒu	if you marry a chicken follow the chicken, if you marry a dog follow the dog (idiom)
子不嫌母醜，狗不嫌家貧	子不嫌母丑，狗不嫌家贫	zǐ bù xián mǔ chǒu , gǒu bù xián jiā pín	see 兒不嫌母醜，狗不嫌家貧|儿不嫌母丑，狗不嫌家贫[ér bù xián mǔ chǒu , gǒu bù xián jiā pín]
學如逆水行舟，不進則退	学如逆水行舟，不进则退	xué rú nì shuǐ xíng zhōu , bù jìn zé tuì	study is like rowing upstream – if you don't keep pushing forward, you fall behind
學而不厭，誨人不倦	学而不厌，诲人不倦	xué ér bù yàn , huì rén bù juàn	study tirelessly, teach with endless enthusiasm (idiom, from Analects)
學而不思則罔，思而不學則殆	学而不思则罔，思而不学则殆	xué ér bù sī zé wǎng , sī ér bù xué zé dài	To learn without thinking is confusing, to think without learning is dangerous (Confucius)
守株待兔，緣木求魚	守株待兔，缘木求鱼	shǒu zhū dài tù , yuán mù qiú yú	to guard a tree-stump, waiting for rabbits, and climb a tree to catch fish (idiom); without any practical course of action
害人之心不可有，防人之心不可無	害人之心不可有，防人之心不可无	hài rén zhī xīn bù kě yǒu , fáng rén zhī xīn bù kě wú	refrain from hurting others, yet guard against those trying to hurt you (proverb)
家累千金，坐不垂堂	家累千金，坐不垂堂	jiā lěi qiān jīn , zuò bù chuí táng	lit. a wealthy person does not sit under the eaves (idiom); fig. a rich man does not expose himself to danger
家醜不可外傳，流言切莫輕信	家丑不可外传，流言切莫轻信	jiā chǒu bù kě wài chuán , liú yán qiè mò qīng xìn	Don't spread abroad the shame of the family, don't believe rumors lightly. (idiom)/Don't wash your dirty linen in public, don't listen to others' gossip.
寧做雞頭，不做鳳尾	宁做鸡头，不做凤尾	nìng zuò jī tóu , bù zuò fèng wěi	lit. would rather be a chicken's head than a phoenix's tail (idiom)/fig. to prefer to be a big fish in a small pond rather than a small fish in a big pond
寧拆十座廟，不毀一樁婚	宁拆十座庙，不毁一桩婚	níng chāi shí zuò miào , bù huì yī zhuāng hūn	rather destroy ten temples than a single marriage (idiom)
寧為玉碎，不為瓦全	宁为玉碎，不为瓦全	nìng wéi yù suì , bù wéi wǎ quán	Better broken jade than intact tile./Death is preferable to dishonor. (idiom)
寧為雞頭，不為鳳尾	宁为鸡头，不为凤尾	nìng wéi jī tóu , bù wéi fèng wěi	see 寧做雞頭，不做鳳尾|宁做鸡头，不做凤尾[nìng zuò jī tóu , bù zuò fèng wěi]
小作怡情，大作傷身	小作怡情，大作伤身	xiǎo zuò yí qíng , dà zuò shāng shēn	a little bit of it does one good, but carried to excess it's harmful (idiom)
小時了了，大未必佳	小时了了，大未必佳	xiǎo shí liǎo liǎo , dà wèi bì jiā	being bright at an early age does not necessarily bring success upon growing up (proverb)
小洞不堵，大洞受苦	小洞不堵，大洞受苦	xiǎo dòng bù dǔ , dà dòng shòu kǔ	A small hole not plugged will make you suffer a big hole (idiom); A stitch in time saves nine.
小洞不堵，大洞吃苦	小洞不堵，大洞吃苦	xiǎo dòng bù dǔ , dà dòng chī kǔ	a small hole not plugged will give you grief when it gets bigger (idiom)/a stitch in time saves nine
小洞不堵，大洞難補	小洞不堵，大洞难补	xiǎo dòng bù dǔ , dà dòng nán bǔ	If you don't plug the small hole, the big hole will be hard to repair (idiom); A stitch in time saves nine.
少壯不努力，老大徒傷悲	少壮不努力，老大徒伤悲	shào zhuàng bù nǔ lì , lǎo dà tú shāng bēi	if you are lazy in your prime, you'll be sorry in your old age
少女露笑臉，婚事半成全	少女露笑脸，婚事半成全	shào nǚ lù xiào liǎn , hūn shì bàn chéng quán	When the girl smiles, the matchmaker's job is half done. (idiom)
尺有所短，寸有所長	尺有所短，寸有所长	chǐ yǒu suǒ duǎn , cùn yǒu suǒ cháng	lit. for some things a foot may be too short, and for the other an inch will suffice (proverb)/fig. everyone has their strong and weak points/everything has its advantages and disadvantages
山中無老虎，猴子稱大王	山中无老虎，猴子称大王	shān zhōng wú lǎo hǔ , hóu zi chēng dài wang	in the country of the blind the one-eyed man is king
山外有山，天外有天	山外有山，天外有天	shān wài yǒu shān , tiān wài yǒu tiān	(idiom) however good sth is, there is always sth better/in the wider world there are people more talented than oneself
工欲善其事，必先利其器	工欲善其事，必先利其器	gōng yù shàn qí shì , bì xiān lì qí qì	To do a good job, an artisan needs the best tools (idiom). Good tools are prerequisite to the successful execution of a job
左耳入，右耳出	左耳入，右耳出	zuǒ ěr rù , yòu ěr chū	in one ear and out the other
差之毫釐，失之千里	差之毫厘，失之千里	chā zhī háo lí , shī zhī qiān lǐ	the slightest difference leads to a huge loss (idiom)/a miss is as good as a mile
差之毫釐，謬以千里	差之毫厘，谬以千里	chā zhī háo lí , miù yǐ qiān lǐ	the slightest difference leads to a huge error (idiom)/a miss is as good as a mile
己所不欲，勿施於人	己所不欲，勿施于人	jǐ suǒ bù yù , wù shī yú rén	What you don't want done to you, don't do to others. (idiom, from the Confucian analects)/Do as you would be done by./Do not do to others what you would not have them do to you.
師父領進門，修行在個人	师父领进门，修行在个人	shī fu lǐng jìn mén , xiū xíng zài gè rén	the master leads you to the door, the rest is up to you/you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink
帶著希望去旅行，比到達終點更美好	带着希望去旅行，比到达终点更美好	dài zhe xī wàng qù lǚ xíng , bǐ dào dá zhōng diǎn gèng měi hǎo	It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
常在河邊走，哪有不濕鞋	常在河边走，哪有不湿鞋	cháng zài hé biān zǒu , nǎ yǒu bù shī xié	a person who regularly walks by the river cannot avoid getting their shoes wet (proverb)/(fig.) it comes with the territory (e.g. a person with the power to grant favors will inevitably succumb to temptation and take a bribe)
平時不燒香，臨時抱佛腳	平时不烧香，临时抱佛脚	píng shí bù shāo xiāng , lín shí bào fó jiǎo	lit. to clasp the Buddha's feet when danger arises (idiom); fig. to profess devotion only when in trouble/doing things at the last minute/to make a hasty last-minute effort (often refers to cramming for exams)
平生不做虧心事，半夜敲門心不驚	平生不做亏心事，半夜敲门心不惊	píng shēng bù zuò kuī xīn shì , bàn yè qiāo mén xīn bù jīng	He who never wrongs others does not fear the knock in the night./Rest with a clear conscience.
幼吾幼，以及人之幼	幼吾幼，以及人之幼	yòu wú yòu , yǐ jí rén zhī yòu	to care for other's children as one's own
張三，李四，王五，趙六	张三，李四，王五，赵六	Zhāng sān , Lǐ sì , Wáng wǔ , Zhào liù	four proverbial names/Tom, Dick and Harry
張家長，李家短	张家长，李家短	Zhāng jiā cháng , Lǐ jiā duǎn	lit. the Zhangs are better off than the Lis (idiom); to gossip about the neighbors
得道多助，失道寡助	得道多助，失道寡助	dé dào duō zhù , shī dào guǎ zhù	A just cause attracts much support, an unjust one finds little (idiom, from Mencius)
從善如登，從惡如崩	从善如登，从恶如崩	cóng shàn rú dēng , cóng è rú bēng	doing good is like a hard climb, doing evil is like an easy fall (idiom)
心有餘，力不足	心有余，力不足	xīn yǒu yú , lì bù zú	The will is there, but not the strength (idiom, from Confucian Analects)./I really want to do it, but don't have the resources./The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
意存筆先，畫盡意在	意存笔先，画尽意在	yì cún bǐ xiān , huà jìn yì zài	the idea is present before the first stroke of the brush, when the last stroke is placed the idea shines through
愛美之心，人皆有之	爱美之心，人皆有之	ài měi zhī xīn , rén jiē yǒu zhī	everyone loves beauty (idiom)
成也蕭何，敗也蕭何	成也萧何，败也萧何	chéng yě Xiāo Hé , bài yě Xiāo Hé	lit. raised up by Xiao He, cast down by Xiao He (idiom), alluding to Han Xin 韓信|韩信[Hán Xìn] being made Grand General 大將軍|大将军[dà jiāng jūn]/fig. a situation where one's success and failure are both due to the same factor
成事不足，敗事有餘	成事不足，败事有余	chéng shì bù zú , bài shì yǒu yú	unable to accomplish anything but liable to spoil everything (idiom)/unable to do anything right/never make, but always mar
成則為王，敗則為寇	成则为王，败则为寇	chéng zé wéi wáng , bài zé wéi kòu	lit. called a king if successful, called a bandit if defeated (idiom)/fig. losers are always in the wrong
成者為王，敗者為寇	成者为王，败者为寇	chéng zhě wéi wáng , bài zhě wéi kòu	see 成則為王，敗則為寇|成则为王，败则为寇[chéng zé wéi wáng , bài zé wéi kòu]
戰無不勝，攻無不克	战无不胜，攻无不克	zhàn wú bù shèng , gōng wú bù kè	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering/ever victorious/nothing they can't do
戰無不勝，攻無不取	战无不胜，攻无不取	zhàn wú bù shèng , gōng wú bù qǔ	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering/ever victorious/nothing they can't do
打一巴掌，給個甜棗	打一巴掌，给个甜枣	dǎ yī bā zhang , gěi gè tián zǎo	lit. to give sb a slap, then offer a sweet date (idiom)/fig. to deal harshly with sb, then offer sth by way of consolation
打掉門牙，往肚子裡嚥	打掉门牙，往肚子里咽	dǎ diào mén yá , wǎng dù zi lǐ yàn	lit. to swallow one's knocked-out teeth after getting punched in the face (idiom)/fig. to endure bullying or insults stoically
打蛇不死，後患無窮	打蛇不死，后患无穷	dǎ shé bù sǐ , hòu huàn wú qióng	if you beat the snake without killing it, endless evils will ensue (idiom)
指揮有方，人人樂從	指挥有方，人人乐从	zhǐ huī yǒu fāng , rén rén lè cóng	Command right and you will be obeyed cheerfully. (idiom)
捨得一身剮，敢把皇帝拉下馬	舍得一身剐，敢把皇帝拉下马	shě de yī shēn guǎ , gǎn bǎ huáng dì lā xià mǎ	one who does not fear the death of thousand cuts will dare to unhorse the emperor (proverb)/to a fearless person, no fence is high enough
撐死膽大的，餓死膽小的	撑死胆大的，饿死胆小的	chēng sǐ dǎn dà de , è sǐ dǎn xiǎo de	fullness for the bold, famine for the timid (idiom)
攻無不克，戰無不勝	攻无不克，战无不胜	gōng wú bù kè , zhàn wú bù shèng	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering/ever victorious/nothing they can't do
放下屠刀，立地成佛	放下屠刀，立地成佛	fàng xià tú dāo , lì dì chéng fó	lay down butcher's knife, become a Buddha on the spot (idiom); instant rehabilitation/to repent and be absolved of one's crimes
既來之，則安之	既来之，则安之	jì lái zhī , zé ān zhī	Since they have come, we should make them comfortable (idiom). Since we're here, take it easy./Since this is so, we should accept it./Now we have come, let's stay and take the rough with the smooth./If you can't do anything to prevent it, you might as well sit back and enjoy it.
日出而作，日入而息	日出而作，日入而息	rì chū ér zuò , rì rù ér xī	lit. to get up at sunrise and work until sunset (proverb)/fig. to lead a plain and hardworking life
早動手，早收穫	早动手，早收获	zǎo dòng shǒu , zǎo shōu huò	The sooner you set to work, the sooner you'll reap the rewards. (idiom)
明修棧道，暗渡陳倉	明修栈道，暗渡陈仓	míng xiū zhàn dào , àn dù Chén cāng	lit. repair the plank road by day while secretly crossing the Wei River 渭河[Wèi Hé] at Chencang (idiom, refers to a stratagem used by Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liú Bāng] in 206 BC against Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiàng Yǔ] of Chu)/fig. to feign one thing while doing another/to cheat under cover of a diversion
明槍好躲，暗箭難防	明枪好躲，暗箭难防	míng qiāng hǎo duǒ , àn jiàn nán fáng	lit. easy to dodge the spear in the open, hard to avoid a stab in the dark (idiom); it is hard to guard against secret conspiracies
明槍易躲，暗箭難防	明枪易躲，暗箭难防	míng qiāng yì duǒ , àn jiàn nán fáng	lit. easy to dodge the spear in the open, hard to avoid a stab in the dark (idiom); it is hard to guard against secret conspiracies
明知山有虎，偏向虎山行	明知山有虎，偏向虎山行	míng zhī shān yǒu hǔ , piān xiàng hǔ shān xíng	lit. to willfully go towards the mountain although knowing that it has tigers (idiom)/fig. to take a risk despite knowing the dangers
星星之火，可以燎原	星星之火，可以燎原	xīng xing zhī huǒ , kě yǐ liáo yuán	a single spark can start a huge blaze (idiom); an insignificant cause can have a massive effect
春生，夏長，秋收，冬藏	春生，夏长，秋收，冬藏	chūn shēng , xià zhǎng , qiū shōu , dōng cáng	sow in spring, develop in summer, harvest in autumn, store in winter (idiom)
是可忍，孰不可忍	是可忍，孰不可忍	shì kě rěn , shú bù kě rěn	if this can be tolerated, what cannot? (idiom)/enough is enough
是騾子是馬，拉出來遛遛	是骡子是马，拉出来遛遛	shì luó zi shì mǎ , lā chū lai liù liu	see 是騾子是馬，牽出來遛遛|是骡子是马，牵出来遛遛[shì luó zi shì mǎ , qiān chū lai liù liu]
是騾子是馬，牽出來遛遛	是骡子是马，牵出来遛遛	shì luó zi shì mǎ , qiān chū lai liù liu	lit. to see whether it's a mule or a horse, take it out for a walk (idiom)/fig. the proof of the pudding is in the eating/to show what one is made of
時代不同，風尚不同	时代不同，风尚不同	shí dài bù tóng , fēng shàng bù tóng	customs change with time (idiom); other times, other manners/O Tempora, O Mores!
智者千慮，必有一失	智者千虑，必有一失	zhì zhě qiān lǜ , bì yǒu yī shī	lit. a wise person reflecting a thousand times can still make a mistake (idiom); fig. nobody is infallible
書中自有黃金屋，書中自有顏如玉	书中自有黄金屋，书中自有颜如玉	shū zhōng zì yǒu huáng jīn wū , shū zhōng zì yǒu yán rú yù	lit. in books are sumptuous houses and graceful ladies (proverb)/fig. be diligent in your studies, success and glory will follow
曾經滄海難為水，除卻巫山不是雲	曾经沧海难为水，除却巫山不是云	céng jīng cāng hǎi nán wéi shuǐ , chú què Wū Shān bù shì yún	there are no rivers to one who has crossed the ocean, and no clouds to one who has passed Mount Wu (idiom)/one who has seen the world doesn't stop at small things
有仇不報非君子，有冤不伸枉為人	有仇不报非君子，有冤不伸枉为人	yǒu chóu bù bào fēi jūn zǐ , yǒu yuān bù shēn wǎng wéi rén	one who doesn't avenge an injustice is not a gentleman, one who doesn't redress a wrong is not a man (idiom)
有借有還，再借不難	有借有还，再借不难	yǒu jiè yǒu huán , zài jiè bù nán	return what you borrowed on time, you may borrow again next time (idiom)
有其師，必有其徒	有其师，必有其徒	yǒu qí shī , bì yǒu qí tú	As the teacher, so the pupil. (idiom)
有則改之，無則加勉	有则改之，无则加勉	yǒu zé gǎi zhī , wú zé jiā miǎn	correct any mistakes you made, but maintain your good record if you did not make them (idiom)
有意栽花花不發，無心插柳柳成陰	有意栽花花不发，无心插柳柳成阴	yǒu yì zāi huā huā bù fā , wú xīn chā liǔ liǔ chéng yīn	lit. you plant a garden and the flowers do not bloom, you poke a stick in the mud and it grows into a tree/fig. things do not always turn out as one would expect/well-laid plans may fail, and success may come where you least expect it
有福同享，有禍同當	有福同享，有祸同当	yǒu fú tóng xiǎng , yǒu huò tóng dāng	To enjoy blessings and endure misfortune together (idiom); for better or for worse
有福同享，有難同當	有福同享，有难同当	yǒu fú tóng xiǎng , yǒu nàn tóng dāng	To enjoy blessings and endure misfortune together (idiom); for better or for worse
林子大了，什麼鳥都有	林子大了，什么鸟都有	lín zi dà le , shén me niǎo dōu yǒu	it takes all sorts (to make a world) (idiom)
樹高千丈，落葉歸根	树高千丈，落叶归根	shù gāo qiān zhàng , luò yè guī gēn	see 樹高千丈，葉落歸根|树高千丈，叶落归根[shù gāo qiān zhàng , yè luò guī gēn]
樹高千丈，葉落歸根	树高千丈，叶落归根	shù gāo qiān zhàng , yè luò guī gēn	fig. a tree may grow a thousand zhang high, but its leaves return to their roots (proverb)/fig. everything has its ancestral home/in old age, an expatriate returns home
機不可失，失不再來	机不可失，失不再来	jī bù kě shī , shī bù zài lái	opportunity knocks but once (idiom)
機不可失，時不再來	机不可失，时不再来	jī bù kě shī , shí bù zài lái	Opportunity knocks but once. (idiom)
欲加之罪，何患無辭	欲加之罪，何患无辞	yù jiā zhī zuì , hé huàn wú cí	If you want to condemn sb, don't worry about the pretext (idiom, from Zuozhuan 左傳|左传); one can always trump up a charge against sb/Give a dog a bad name, then hang him.
欲善其事，必先利其器	欲善其事，必先利其器	yù shàn qí shì , bì xiān lì qí qì	To do a good job, an artisan needs the best tools (idiom). Good tools are prerequisite to the successful execution of a job
水能載舟，亦能覆舟	水能载舟，亦能覆舟	shuǐ néng zài zhōu , yì néng fù zhōu	lit. water may keep the boat afloat but may also sink it (proverb)/fig. the people can support a regime or overturn it/if sth is used properly, one can benefit from it, otherwise it can do harm/things can be double-edged
水至清則無魚，人至察則無徒	水至清则无鱼，人至察则无徒	shuǐ zhì qīng zé wú yú , rén zhì chá zé wú tú	water that is too clear has no fish, and one who is too severe has no friends (idiom)
江山易改，本性難移	江山易改，本性难移	jiāng shān yì gǎi , běn xìng nán yí	it is easier to change mountains and rivers than to alter one's character (idiom)/you can't change who you are/Can the leopard change his spots?
沒有規矩，不成方圓	没有规矩，不成方圆	méi yǒu guī ju , bù chéng fāng yuán	without rules, nothing can be done (idiom); one must follow some rules
沒有規矩，何以成方圓	没有规矩，何以成方圆	méi yǒu guī ju , hé yǐ chéng fāng yuán	without rules, how can anything be done (idiom); one must follow some rules
法網灰灰，疏而不漏	法网灰灰，疏而不漏	fǎ wǎng huī huī , shū ér bù lòu	The net of justice is wide, but no-one escapes.
泥菩薩過江，自身難保	泥菩萨过江，自身难保	ní pú sà guò jiāng , zì shēn nán bǎo	like a clay Bodhisattva fording a river, can't guarantee his own safety/unable to save oneself, let alone others
活到老，學到老	活到老，学到老	huó dào lǎo , xué dào lǎo	One is never too old to learn. (idiom)
流水不腐，戶樞不蠹	流水不腐，户枢不蠹	liú shuǐ bù fǔ , hù shū bù dù	lit. flowing water does not rot, nor a door-hinge rust (idiom)/fig. constant activity prevents decay
海內存知己，天涯若比鄰	海内存知己，天涯若比邻	hǎi nèi cún zhī jǐ , tiān yá ruò bǐ lín	close friend in a distant land, far-flung realms as next door/close in spirit although far away
滿招損，謙受益	满招损，谦受益	mǎn zhāo sǔn , qiān shòu yì	(idiom) complacency leads to loss, modesty brings profit/pride comes before a fall
為富不仁，為仁不富	为富不仁，为仁不富	wéi fù bù rén , wéi rén bù fù	the benevolent man cannot be rich and vice versa (idiom, from Mencius). It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 19:24).
烽煙四起，戰火紛飛	烽烟四起，战火纷飞	fēng yān sì qǐ , zhàn huǒ fēn fēi	lit. fire beacons in all four directions (idiom); the confusion of war
無一事而不學，無一時而不學，無一處而不得	无一事而不学，无一时而不学，无一处而不得	wú yī shì ér bù xué , wú yī shí ér bù xué , wú yī chù ér bù dé	Study everything, at all times, everywhere. (Zhu Xi 朱熹[Zhū Xī])
無事獻殷勤，非姦即盜	无事献殷勤，非奸即盗	wú shì xiàn yīn qín , fēi jiān jí dào	one who is unaccountably solicitous is hiding evil intentions (idiom)
牡丹雖好，全仗綠葉扶	牡丹虽好，全仗绿叶扶	mǔ dan suī hǎo , quán zhàng lǜ yè fú	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
牡丹雖好，全仗綠葉扶持	牡丹虽好，全仗绿叶扶持	mǔ dan suī hǎo , quán zhàng lǜ yè fú chí	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
牡丹雖好，全憑綠葉扶持	牡丹虽好，全凭绿叶扶持	mǔ dan suī hǎo , quán píng lǜ yè fú chí	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
牡丹雖好，終須綠葉扶持	牡丹虽好，终须绿叶扶持	mǔ dan suī hǎo , zhōng xū lǜ yè fú chí	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
物以類聚，人以群分	物以类聚，人以群分	wù yǐ lèi jù , rén yǐ qún fēn	Similar things group together, similar people fit together (idiom); Birds of a feather flock together.
牽馬到河易，強馬飲水難	牵马到河易，强马饮水难	qiān mǎ dào hé yì , qiǎng mǎ yǐn shuǐ nán	You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. (idiom)
狗咬呂洞賓，不識好人心	狗咬吕洞宾，不识好人心	gǒu yǎo Lǚ Dòng bīn , bù shí hǎo rén xīn	a dog biting Lü Dongbin (idiom)/to ill reward a person's kindness
王婆賣瓜，自賣自誇	王婆卖瓜，自卖自夸	wáng pó mài guā , zì mài zì kuā	every potter praises his own pot (idiom)/all one's geese are swans
瓜無滾圓，人無十全	瓜无滚圆，人无十全	guā wú gǔn yuán , rén wú shí quán	no gourd is perfectly round, just as no man is perfect (proverb)
瓜田不納履，李下不整冠	瓜田不纳履，李下不整冠	guā tián bù nà lǚ , lǐ xià bù zhěng guān	lit. don't tie your shoelaces in a melon patch, and don't adjust your hat under a plum tree (idiom)/fig. don't do anything that might arouse suspicion/innocent acts may be misconstrued
生命不息，戰鬥不止	生命不息，战斗不止	shēng mìng bù xī , zhàn dòu bù zhǐ	while there is life, the fight continues (idiom); to fight to the last
生於憂患，死於安樂	生于忧患，死于安乐	shēng yú yōu huàn , sǐ yú ān lè	to thrive in calamity and perish in soft living (idiom)/life springs from sorrow and calamity, death comes from ease and pleasure
甲之蜜糖，乙之砒霜	甲之蜜糖，乙之砒霜	jiǎ zhī mì táng , yǐ zhī pī shuāng	one man's meat is another man's poison (idiom)
男主外，女主內	男主外，女主内	nán zhǔ wài , nǚ zhǔ nèi	men go out to work and women stay at home (idiom)
男人不壞，女人不愛	男人不坏，女人不爱	nán rén bù huài , nǚ rén bù ài	women love bad guys
男怕入錯行，女怕嫁錯郎	男怕入错行，女怕嫁错郎	nán pà rù cuò háng , nǚ pà jià cuò láng	men fear getting into the wrong line of business, women fear marrying the wrong man (proverb)
留得青山在，不怕沒柴燒	留得青山在，不怕没柴烧	liú de qīng shān zài , bù pà méi chái shāo	While the green hills last, there'll be wood to burn (idiom). Where there's life there's hope.
當局者迷，旁觀者清	当局者迷，旁观者清	dāng jú zhě mí , páng guān zhě qīng	an outsider can see things more clearly or objectively than those involved (idiom)
疾風知勁草，烈火見真金	疾风知劲草，烈火见真金	jí fēng zhī jìn cǎo , liè huǒ jiàn zhēn jīn	the storm put strong grass to the test, fire tests true gold (idiom); fig. troubled times test a faithful minister/to show one's true colors after a stern test
病來如山倒，病去如抽絲	病来如山倒，病去如抽丝	bìng lái rú shān dǎo , bìng qù rú chōu sī	sickness comes like a landslide, but goes slowly like spinning silk (idiom); expect to convalesce slowly
病從口入，禍從口出	病从口入，祸从口出	bìng cóng kǒu rù , huò cóng kǒu chū	Illness enters by the mouth, trouble comes out by the mouth (idiom). A loose tongue may cause a lot of trouble.
百尺竿頭，更盡一步	百尺竿头，更尽一步	bǎi chǐ gān tóu , gèng jìn yī bù	lit. hundred foot pole, progress still further (idiom); fig. much accomplished, still some work to do/to continue to further successes/not to rest on one's laurels
百花齊放，百家爭鳴	百花齐放，百家争鸣	bǎi huā qí fàng , bǎi jiā zhēng míng	a hundred flowers bloom, a hundred schools of thought contend (idiom); refers to the classical philosophic schools of the Warring States period 475-221 BC, but adopted for Mao's campaign of 1956
看菜吃飯，量體裁衣	看菜吃饭，量体裁衣	kān cài chī fàn , liáng tǐ cái yī	eat depending on the dish, cut cloth according to the body (idiom); to fit the appetite to the dishes and the dress to the figure/to act according to actual circumstances/to live within one's means
眼不見，心不煩	眼不见，心不烦	yǎn bù jiàn , xīn bù fán	what the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over (idiom)
眼中釘，肉中刺	眼中钉，肉中刺	yǎn zhōng dīng , ròu zhōng cì	a thorn in one's side
眼見為實，耳聽為虛	眼见为实，耳听为虚	yǎn jiàn wéi shí , ěr tīng wéi xū	to believe what one sees, not what one hears (idiom). Don't believe what people tell you until you see if for yourself./It ain't necessarily so.
眼觀四處，耳聽八方	眼观四处，耳听八方	yǎn guān sì chù , ěr tīng bā fāng	see 眼觀四面，耳聽八方|眼观四面，耳听八方[yǎn guān sì miàn , ěr tīng bā fāng]
眼觀四面，耳聽八方	眼观四面，耳听八方	yǎn guān sì miàn , ěr tīng bā fāng	lit. the eyes observe all sides and the ears listen in all directions (idiom)/fig. to be observant and alert
知人者智，自知者明	知人者智，自知者明	zhī rén zhě zhì , zì zhī zhě míng	those who understand others are clever, but those who know themselves are truly wise (idiom, from Laozi's 道德經|道德经[Dào dé jīng]
知己知彼，百戰不殆	知己知彼，百战不殆	zhī jǐ zhī bǐ , bǎi zhàn bù dài	know yourself and know your enemy, and you will never be defeated (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sūn zǐ Bīng fǎ])
知彼知己，百戰不殆	知彼知己，百战不殆	zhī bǐ zhī jǐ , bǎi zhàn bù dài	knowing the enemy and yourself will get you unscathed through a hundred battles (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War")
知無不言，言無不盡	知无不言，言无不尽	zhī wú bù yán , yán wú bù jìn	not hiding anything he knows, not stopping before he has said it through (idiom)/frank/outspoken
神女有心，襄王無夢	神女有心，襄王无梦	shén nǚ yǒu xīn , Xiāng Wáng wú mèng	lit. the fairy is willing, but King Xiang doesn't dream (idiom)/(said of a woman's unrequited love)
禮輕人意重，千里送鵝毛	礼轻人意重，千里送鹅毛	lǐ qīng rén yì zhòng , qiān lǐ sòng é máo	goose feather sent from afar, a slight present but weighty meaning (idiom); It's not the present the counts, it's the thought behind it.
秀才不出門，全知天下事	秀才不出门，全知天下事	xiù cai bù chū mén , quán zhī tiān xià shì	a learned person need not leave his home to know what's going on in the world (idiom)
秀才不出門，能知天下事	秀才不出门，能知天下事	xiù cai bù chū mén , néng zhī tiān xià shì	a learned person need not leave his home to know what's going on in the world (idiom)
種瓜得瓜，種豆得豆	种瓜得瓜，种豆得豆	zhòng guā dé guā , zhòng dòu dé dòu	lit. Sow melon and you get melon, sow beans and you get beans (idiom); fig. As you sow, so shall you reap./One must live with the consequences of one's actions./You've made your bed, now must lie on it.
窮在鬧市無人問，富在深山有遠親	穷在闹市无人问，富在深山有远亲	qióng zài nào shì wú rén wèn , fù zài shēn shān yǒu yuǎn qīn	the poor are ignored in the busiest city; the rich will find relatives in the deepest mountain
竊國者侯，竊鉤者誅	窃国者侯，窃钩者诛	qiè guó zhě hóu , qiè gōu zhě zhū	steal the whole country and they make you a prince, steal a hook and they hang you (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子)
竊鉤者誅，竊國者侯	窃钩者诛，窃国者侯	qiè gōu zhě zhū , qiè guó zhě hóu	steal a hook and they hang you, steal the whole country and they make you a prince (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子)
竹籃打水，一場空	竹篮打水，一场空	zhú lán dǎ shuǐ , yī cháng kōng	using a wicker basket to draw water (idiom); wasted effort
精誠所加，金石為開	精诚所加，金石为开	jīng chéng suǒ jiā , jīn shí wèi kāi	lit. sincerity splits open metal and metal (idiom); if you put your heart to it, you can break up metal and rocks/With a will, you can achieve anything.
精誠所至，金石為開	精诚所至，金石为开	jīng chéng suǒ zhì , jīn shí wèi kāi	lit. sincerity splits open metal and metal (idiom); if you put your heart to it, you can break up metal and rocks/With a will, you can achieve anything.
罷黜百家，獨尊儒術	罢黜百家，独尊儒术	bà chù bǎi jiā , dú zūn rú shù	Dismiss the hundred schools, revere only the Confucian (idiom)/sole dominant ideology
老吾老，以及人之老	老吾老，以及人之老	lǎo wú lǎo , yǐ jí rén zhī lǎo	to honor old people as we do our own aged parents
老吾老，以及人之老，幼吾幼，以及人之幼	老吾老，以及人之老，幼吾幼，以及人之幼	lǎo wú lǎo , yǐ jí rén zhī lǎo , yòu wú yòu , yǐ jí rén zhī yòu	to honor old people as we do our own aged parents, and care for other's children as one's own
老子英雄兒好漢，老子反動兒混蛋	老子英雄儿好汉，老子反动儿混蛋	lǎo zi yīng xióng ér hǎo hàn , lǎo zi fǎn dòng ér hún dàn	If the father is a hero, the son is a real man. If the father is a reactionary, the son is a bastard. (Cultural Revolution slogan)/fig. like father, like son
老王賣瓜，自賣自誇	老王卖瓜，自卖自夸	Lǎo Wáng mài guā , zì mài zì kuā	every potter praises his own pot (idiom)/all one's geese are swans
老驥伏櫪，志在千里	老骥伏枥，志在千里	lǎo jì fú lì , zhì zài qiān lǐ	lit. an old steed in the stable still aspires to gallop 1000 miles (idiom); fig. old people may still cherish high aspirations
老鼠拉龜，無從下手	老鼠拉龟，无从下手	lǎo shǔ lā guī , wú cóng xià shǒu	like mice trying to pull a turtle, nowhere to get a hand grip (idiom)/no clue where to start
老鼠拖木鍁，大頭在後頭	老鼠拖木锨，大头在后头	lǎo shǔ tuō mù xiān , dà tóu zài hòu tou	when the mice drag a shovel, the biggest thing comes second/the tip of the iceberg/the cockroach principle
老鼠過街，人人喊打	老鼠过街，人人喊打	lǎo shǔ guò jiē , rén rén hǎn dǎ	lit. when a rat crosses the street, people chase it down (idiom)/fig. everyone detests a lowlife
耕當問奴，織當訪婢	耕当问奴，织当访婢	gēng dāng wèn nú , zhī dāng fǎng bì	if it's plowing ask the laborer, if it's weaving ask the maid (idiom); when managing a matter, consult the appropriate specialist
耳聽為虛，眼見為實	耳听为虚，眼见为实	ěr tīng wéi xū , yǎn jiàn wéi shí	Take what you hear to be false, only believe it when you see it (idiom). Don't believe what people tell you until you see if for yourself./It ain't necessarily so.
聰明一世，懵懂一時	聪明一世，懵懂一时	cōng ming yī shì , měng dǒng yī shí	see 聰明一世，糊塗一時|聪明一世，糊涂一时[cōng ming yī shì , hú tu yī shí]
聰明一世，糊塗一時	聪明一世，糊涂一时	cōng ming yī shì , hú tu yī shí	even the wisest can have a momentary lapse in judgment (idiom)/every man has a fool in his sleeve
聽君一席話，勝讀十年書	听君一席话，胜读十年书	tīng jūn yī xí huà , shèng dú shí nián shū	listening to the words of a wise man can be superior to studying ten years of books (proverb)
聽話聽聲，鑼鼓聽音	听话听声，锣鼓听音	tīng huà tīng shēng , luó gǔ tīng yīn	to understand the unspoken implications (idiom)
臨淵羨魚，不如退而結網	临渊羡鱼，不如退而结网	lín yuān xiàn yú , bù rú tuì ér jié wǎng	better to go home and weave a net than to stand by the pond longing for fish (idiom)/one should take practical steps to achieve one's aim
臺上一分鐘，臺下十年功	台上一分钟，台下十年功	tái shàng yī fēn zhōng , tái xià shí nián gōng	ten years of practice for one minute on the stage (idiom)
與人方便，自己方便	与人方便，自己方便	yǔ rén fāng biàn , zì jǐ fāng biàn	Help others, and others may help you (idiom).
舊的不去，新的不來	旧的不去，新的不来	jiù de bù qù , xīn de bù lái	lit. If the old doesn't go, the new will not come./You can't make progress by clinging to old notions.
船到江心，補漏遲	船到江心，补漏迟	chuán dào jiāng xīn , bǔ lòu chí	It's too late to plug the leak once ship is in the middle of the river. (idiom)
船到碼頭，車到站	船到码头，车到站	chuán dào mǎ tóu , chē dào zhàn	The ship has docked, the carriage has reached the station./The job is over, it's time to relax. (idiom)
花有重開日，人無再少年	花有重开日，人无再少年	huā yǒu chóng kāi rì , rén wú zài shào nián	a flower may blossom again, but a person cannot get young again (proverb)
苟富貴，勿相忘	苟富贵，勿相忘	gǒu fù guì , wù xiāng wàng	don't forget your friends when you become rich
若要人不知，除非己莫為	若要人不知，除非己莫为	ruò yào rén bù zhī , chú fēi jǐ mò wéi	If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it (idiom). fig. If you do something bad, people will inevitably hear about it.
苦海無邊，回頭是岸	苦海无边，回头是岸	kǔ hǎi wú biān , huí tóu shì àn	The sea of bitterness has no bounds, turn your head to see the shore (idiom). Only Buddhist enlightenment can allow one to shed off the abyss of worldly suffering./Repent and ye shall be saved!
萬事俱備，只欠東風	万事俱备，只欠东风	wàn shì jù bèi , zhǐ qiàn dōng fēng	lit. everything is ready, all we need is an east wind (idiom)/fig. lacking only one tiny crucial item
萬事皆備，只欠東風	万事皆备，只欠东风	wàn shì jiē bèi , zhǐ qiàn dōng fēng	everything is ready, all we need is an east wind (idiom)/lacking only one tiny crucial item/also written 萬事俱備，只欠東風|万事俱备，只欠东风
落花有意，流水無情	落花有意，流水无情	luò huā yǒu yì , liú shuǐ wú qíng	lit. the falling flowers are yearning for love, but the heartless brook ripples on (idiom)/fig. one side is willing, yet the other one remains indifferent (usually of unrequited love)
蘿蔔白菜，各有所愛	萝卜白菜，各有所爱	luó bo bái cài , gè yǒu suǒ ài	one man's meat is another man's poison (idiom)/to each his own
蘿蔔青菜，各有所愛	萝卜青菜，各有所爱	luó bo qīng cài , gè yǒu suǒ ài	see 蘿蔔白菜，各有所愛|萝卜白菜，各有所爱[luó bo bái cài , gè yǒu suǒ ài]
虛心使人進步，驕傲使人落後	虚心使人进步，骄傲使人落后	xū xīn shǐ rén jìn bù , jiāo ào shǐ rén luò hòu	Modesty leads to progress, arrogance makes you drop behind (favorite slogan of Mao Zedong)
螳螂捕蟬，黃雀在後	螳螂捕蝉，黄雀在后	táng láng bǔ chán , huáng què zài hòu	the mantis stalks the cicada, unaware of the oriole behind (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子); to pursue a narrow gain while neglecting a greater danger
行不改姓，坐不改名	行不改姓，坐不改名	xíng bù gǎi xìng , zuò bù gǎi míng	see 行不更名，坐不改姓[xíng bù gēng míng , zuò bù gǎi xìng]
行不更名，坐不改姓	行不更名，坐不改姓	xíng bù gēng míng , zuò bù gǎi xìng	I am who I am (and I'm not ashamed)/fig. to be proud of one's name and stand by one's actions
行千里路，讀萬卷書	行千里路，读万卷书	xíng qiān lǐ lù , dú wàn juàn shū	see 行萬里路，讀萬卷書|行万里路，读万卷书[xíng wàn lǐ lù , dú wàn juàn shū]
行萬里路，讀萬卷書	行万里路，读万卷书	xíng wàn lǐ lù , dú wàn juàn shū	Knowledge comes from books and from experience of the world. (idiom)/Learn as much as you can and do all you can.
要風得風，要雨得雨	要风得风，要雨得雨	yào fēng dé fēng , yào yǔ dé yǔ	to get whatever one wants/to have everything going one's way
見人說人話，見鬼說鬼話	见人说人话，见鬼说鬼话	jiàn rén shuō rén huà , jiàn guǐ shuō guǐ huà	(fig.) adaptable/able to deal with various kinds of people and situations/(derog.) insincere/two-faced
親兄弟，明算帳	亲兄弟，明算帐	qīn xiōng dì , míng suàn zhàng	even with your own brother, keep clear accounts (idiom)
言必信，行必果	言必信，行必果	yán bì xìn , xíng bì guǒ	one must be a man of his word and resolute in his work (proverb)
言者無意，聽者有心	言者无意，听者有心	yán zhě wú yì , tīng zhě yǒu xīn	to take a casual remark to heart (idiom)
言者無罪，聞者足戒	言者无罪，闻者足戒	yán zhě wú zuì , wén zhě zú jiè	don't blame the speaker, take note of his warning (idiom); an exhortation to speak one's mind without fear of reprisals, and with the expectation of being taken seriously
說一千，道一萬	说一千，道一万	shuō yī qiān , dào yī wàn	when all is said and done/at the end of the day
說是一回事，做又是另外一回事	说是一回事，做又是另外一回事	shuō shì yī huí shì , zuò yòu shì lìng wài yī huí shì	Saying is one thing, doing quite another (idiom)
說是一回事，而做又是另外一回事	说是一回事，而做又是另外一回事	shuō shì yī huí shì , ér zuò yòu shì lìng wài yī huí shì	see 說是一回事，做又是另外一回事|说是一回事，做又是另外一回事[shuō shì yī huí shì , zuò yòu shì lìng wài yī huí shì]
說時遲，那時快	说时迟，那时快	shuō shí chí , nà shí kuài	(idiom) no sooner said than done/before you know it
說曹操，曹操到	说曹操，曹操到	shuō Cáo Cāo , Cáo Cāo dào	see 說曹操曹操就到|说曹操曹操就到[shuō Cáo Cāo Cáo Cāo jiù dào]
誰笑到最後，誰笑得最好	谁笑到最后，谁笑得最好	shéi xiào dào zuì hòu , shéi xiào dé zuì hǎo	He laughs best who laughs last.
誰笑在最後，誰笑得最好	谁笑在最后，谁笑得最好	shéi xiào zài zuì hòu , shéi xiào dé zuì hǎo	He laughs best who laughs last.
謀事在人，成事在天	谋事在人，成事在天	móu shì zài rén , chéng shì zài tiān	planning is with man, accomplishing with heaven (idiom); Man proposes but God disposes.
讀萬卷書，行萬里路	读万卷书，行万里路	dú wàn juàn shū , xíng wàn lǐ lù	see 行萬里路，讀萬卷書|行万里路，读万卷书[xíng wàn lǐ lù , dú wàn juàn shū]
走自己的路，讓人家去說	走自己的路，让人家去说	zǒu zì jǐ de lù , ràng rén jiā qù shuō	Go your own way, let others say what they like. (popular modern cliche)/Do it my way.
跑了和尚，跑不了寺	跑了和尚，跑不了寺	pǎo le hé shàng , pǎo bù liǎo sì	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom)/you can run this time, but you'll have to come back/I'll get you sooner or later
跑得了和尚，跑不了廟	跑得了和尚，跑不了庙	pǎo dé liǎo hé shàng , pǎo bù liǎo miào	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom)/you can run this time, but you'll have to come back/I'll get you sooner or later
路見不平，拔刀相助	路见不平，拔刀相助	lù jiàn bù píng , bá dāo xiāng zhù	lit. to intervene when one sees an injustice (idiom)/fig. to rush to the rescue/to play the white knight
路遙知馬力，日久見人心	路遥知马力，日久见人心	lù yáo zhī mǎ lì , rì jiǔ jiàn rén xīn	just as distance determines the stamina of a horse, so does time reveal a person's true heart (proverb)
踏破鐵鞋無覓處，得來全不費工夫	踏破铁鞋无觅处，得来全不费工夫	tà pò tiě xié wú mì chù , dé lái quán bù fèi gōng fu	to travel far and wide looking for sth, only to find it easily
躲得過初一，躲不過十五	躲得过初一，躲不过十五	duǒ de guò chū yī , duǒ bù guò shí wǔ	lit. you may go undetected during the new moon, but at full moon you'll be found out (idiom)/fig. you can't put it off forever/sooner or later you'll have to deal with it
躲過初一，躲不過十五	躲过初一，躲不过十五	duǒ guò chū yī , duǒ bù guò shí wǔ	see 躲得過初一，躲不過十五|躲得过初一，躲不过十五[duǒ de guò chū yī , duǒ bù guò shí wǔ]
車到山前必有路，船到橋頭自然直	车到山前必有路，船到桥头自然直	chē dào shān qián bì yǒu lù , chuán dào qiáo tóu zì rán zhí	lit. When we get to the mountain, there'll be a way through and when the boat gets to the pier-head, it will go straight with the current. (idiom)/fig. Everything will turn out for the best./Let's worry about it when it happens./It will be all right on the night.
近朱者赤，近墨者黑	近朱者赤，近墨者黑	jìn zhū zhě chì , jìn mò zhě hēi	those who handle cinnabar are stained red; those who work with ink are stained black (idiom)/you are the product of your environment
逆水行舟，不進則退	逆水行舟，不进则退	nì shuǐ xíng zhōu , bù jìn zé tuì	like rowing a boat upstream, if you stop moving forward you fall back (idiom)
運籌帷幄之中，決勝千里之外	运筹帷幄之中，决胜千里之外	yùn chóu wéi wò zhī zhōng , jué shèng qiān lǐ zhī wài	a general planning in the seclusion of his tent is able to determine the outcome of the distant battle (idiom)
過而能改，善莫大焉	过而能改，善莫大焉	guò ér néng gǎi , shàn mò dà yān	If one can change after making a mistake, there is nothing better (idiom)
道之所存，師之所存	道之所存，师之所存	dào zhī suǒ cún , shī zhī suǒ cún	If sb has grasped the truth before you, take him as your teacher (Tang dynasty essayist Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈)./We should learn from one who knows the way.
道所存者，乃師所存者	道所存者，乃师所存者	dào suǒ cún zhě , nǎi shī suǒ cún zhě	If sb has grasped the truth before you, take him as your teacher (Tang dynasty essayist Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈)./We should learn from one who knows the way.
道高一尺，魔高一丈	道高一尺，魔高一丈	dào gāo yī chǐ , mó gāo yī zhàng	virtue is one foot tall, the devil ten foot (idiom); It takes constant vigilance to stave off evil.
道高益安，勢高益危	道高益安，势高益危	dào gāo yì ān , shì gāo yì wēi	More moral strength increases one's safety, more power and influence increases one's danger (idiom, from Records of the Historian 史記|史记). cf Unlimited power is apt to corrupt the minds of those who possess it (William Pitt the Elder, 1770).
避其銳氣，擊其惰歸	避其锐气，击其惰归	bì qí ruì qì , jī qí duò guī	avoid the enemy when he is fresh and strike him when he is tired and withdraws (idiom)
酒不醉人人自醉，色不迷人人自迷	酒不醉人人自醉，色不迷人人自迷	jiǔ bù zuì rén rén zì zuì , sè bù mí rén rén zì mí	wine doesn't make men drunk: men get themselves intoxicated. Lust does not overpower men: men surrender themselves to lust
野火燒不盡，春風吹又生	野火烧不尽，春风吹又生	yě huǒ shāo bù jìn , chūn fēng chuī yòu shēng	lit. even a prairie fire cannot destroy the grass - it grows again when the breeze blows (proverb)/fig. cannot be easily eliminated/abbr. to 野火春風|野火春风[yě huǒ chūn fēng]
金烏西墜，玉兔東昇	金乌西坠，玉兔东升	jīn wū xī zhuì , yù tù dōng shēng	lit. the golden bird of the sun sets in the west, the jade hare of the moon rises in the east/fig. at sunset
金玉其外，敗絮其中	金玉其外，败絮其中	jīn yù qí wài , bài xù qí zhōng	gilded exterior, shabby and ruined on the inside (idiom)
金玉其表，敗絮其中	金玉其表，败絮其中	jīn yù qí biǎo , bài xù qí zhōng	gilded exterior, shabby and ruined on the inside (idiom)
錢不是萬能的，沒錢是萬萬不能的	钱不是万能的，没钱是万万不能的	qián bù shì wàn néng de , méi qián shì wàn wàn bù néng de	money isn't everything, but without money you can do nothing (idiom)
鐵打的衙門，流水的官	铁打的衙门，流水的官	tiě dǎ de yá men , liú shuǐ de guān	lit. the yamen is strong as iron, the officials flow like water (idiom)/fig. government officials come and go
長流水，不斷線	长流水，不断线	cháng liú shuǐ , bù duàn xiàn	continuous and patient effort (idiom)
門庭冷落，門堪羅雀	门庭冷落，门堪罗雀	mén tíng lěng luò , mén kān luó què	The courtyard is deserted, you can net sparrows at the door (idiom); completely deserted
閻王好見，小鬼難當	阎王好见，小鬼难当	Yán wáng hǎo jiàn , xiǎo guǐ nán dāng	lit. standing in front of the King of Hell is easy, but smaller devils are difficult to deal with (idiom)
關關難過，關關過	关关难过，关关过	guān guān nán guò , guān guān guò	to meet with great difficulties but pull through
雷公打豆腐，揀軟的欺	雷公打豆腐，拣软的欺	Léi Gōng dǎ dòu fu , jiǎn ruǎn de qī	the God of Thunder strikes bean curd, a bully picks the weakest person/to pick on an easy target
雷聲大，雨點小	雷声大，雨点小	léi shēng dà , yǔ diǎn xiǎo	loud thunder, but only tiny drops of rain (idiom); a lot of talk, but no action/action speaks louder than words/his bite is worse than his bark
靠山吃山，靠水吃水	靠山吃山，靠水吃水	kào shān chī shān , kào shuǐ chī shuǐ	lit. the mountain dweller lives off the mountain, the shore dweller lives off the sea (idiom)/fig. to make the best use of local resources/to exploit one's position to advance oneself/to find one's niche/to live off the land
靡不有初，鮮克有終	靡不有初，鲜克有终	mǐ bù yǒu chū , xiǎn kè yǒu zhōng	almost everything has a start, but not many things have an end (idiom); don't start sth you can't handle
鞠躬盡瘁，死而後已	鞠躬尽瘁，死而后已	jū gōng jìn cuì , sǐ ér hòu yǐ	to bend to a task and spare no effort unto one's dying day (idiom); striving to the utmost one's whole life/with every breath in one's body, unto one's dying day
項莊舞劍，志在沛公	项庄舞剑，志在沛公	Xiàng Zhuāng wǔ jiàn , zhì zài Pèi gōng	see 項莊舞劍，意在沛公|项庄舞剑，意在沛公[Xiàng Zhuāng wǔ jiàn , yì zài Pèi gōng]
項莊舞劍，意在沛公	项庄舞剑，意在沛公	Xiàng Zhuāng wǔ jiàn , yì zài Pèi gōng	lit. Xiang Zhuang performs the sword dance, but his mind is set on Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liú Bāng] (idiom); refers to 206 BC plot to murder Liu Bang, aka Duke of Pei 沛公[Pèi gōng] and the future Han emperor, during a sword dance at Feast at Hongmen 鴻門宴|鸿门宴[Hóng mén Yàn]/an elaborate deception to hide malicious intent
頭懸梁，錐刺股	头悬梁，锥刺股	tóu xuán liáng , zhuī cì gǔ	lit. with his head attached to a beam and stabbing his thigh with an awl (idiom)/fig. to study assiduously and tirelessly
頭痛醫頭，腳痛醫腳	头痛医头，脚痛医脚	tóu tòng yī tóu , jiǎo tòng yī jiǎo	to treat the symptoms rather than getting to the root of the problem (proverb)/reactive (rather than proactive)
風中燭，瓦上霜	风中烛，瓦上霜	fēng zhōng zhú , wǎ shàng shuāng	lit. like a candle in the wind, or frost on the roof (idiom)/fig. (of sb's life) feeble/hanging on a thread
食不厭精，膾不厭細	食不厌精，脍不厌细	shí bù yàn jīng , kuài bù yàn xì	lit. to eat but finely ground grain and finely chopped meat (idiom, from Analects)/fig. to be fastidious about one's food
食之無味，棄之不甘	食之无味，弃之不甘	shí zhī wú wèi , qì zhī bù gān	see 食之無味，棄之可惜|食之无味，弃之可惜[shí zhī wú wèi , qì zhī kě xī]
食之無味，棄之可惜	食之无味，弃之可惜	shí zhī wú wèi , qì zhī kě xī	lit. to be hardly worth eating, but it would still be a pity to discard it (idiom)/fig. some things have little to no value, yet one is still reluctant to part with them
飯後一支煙，賽過活神仙	饭后一支烟，赛过活神仙	fàn hòu yī zhī yān , sài guò huó shén xiān	have a smoke after each meal and you will surpass the immortals (proverb)
飯後百步走，活到九十九	饭后百步走，活到九十九	fàn hòu bǎi bù zǒu , huó dào jiǔ shí jiǔ	walk a hundred steps after each meal and you will live a long life (proverb)
飽暖思淫欲，飢寒起盜心	饱暖思淫欲，饥寒起盗心	bǎo nuǎn sī yín yù , jī hán qǐ dào xīn	lechery springs from warmth and nourishment, kleptomania springs from hunger and cold (idiom)
飽食終日，無所用心	饱食终日，无所用心	bǎo shí zhōng rì , wú suǒ yòng xīn	to eat three square meals a day and do no work (idiom)/to be sated with food and remain idle
養兵千日，用兵一時	养兵千日，用兵一时	yǎng bīng qiān rì , yòng bīng yī shí	lit. Train an army for a thousand days to use it for an hour. (idiom); fig. extensive preparation eventually pays off
養兵千日，用在一時	养兵千日，用在一时	yǎng bīng qiān rì , yòng zài yī shí	see 養兵千日，用兵一時|养兵千日，用兵一时[yǎng bīng qiān rì , yòng bīng yī shí]
養兵千日，用在一朝	养兵千日，用在一朝	yǎng bīng qiān rì , yòng zài yī zhāo	lit. train an army for a thousand days to use it for one morning (idiom)/fig. extensive preparation eventually pays off
馬尾穿豆腐，提不起來	马尾穿豆腐，提不起来	mǎ wěi chuān dòu fu , tí bu qǐ lai	lit. like tofu strung on horsetail, you can't lift it/fig. let's not talk of this (pun on 提[tí])
馬無夜草不肥，人無外快不富	马无夜草不肥，人无外快不富	mǎ wú yè cǎo bù féi , rén wú wài kuài bù fù	a horse cannot get fat without an extra ration, a man cannot get rich without an extra income (idiom)
魔高一丈，道高一尺	魔高一丈，道高一尺	mó gāo yī zhàng , dào gāo yī chǐ	the devil is ten foot tall, virtue one foot (idiom); It takes constant vigilance to stave off evil.
魚生火，肉生痰，青菜豆腐保平安	鱼生火，肉生痰，青菜豆腐保平安	yú shēng huǒ , ròu shēng tán , qīng cài dòu fu bǎo píng ān	fish brings heat, meat brings phlegm, vegetables and tofu keep you healthy
鳥不拉屎，雞不生蛋	鸟不拉屎，鸡不生蛋	niǎo bù lā shǐ , jī bù shēng dàn	lit. (a place where) birds don't defecate and hens don't lay eggs (idiom)/fig. god-forsaken/remote and desolate
鳥不生蛋，狗不拉屎	鸟不生蛋，狗不拉屎	niǎo bù shēng dàn , gǒu bù lā shǐ	lit. (a place where) birds don't lay eggs and dogs don't defecate (idiom)/fig. god-forsaken/remote and desolate
鷸蚌相爭，漁翁得利	鹬蚌相争，渔翁得利	yù bàng xiāng zhēng , yú wēng dé lì	lit. sandpiper and clam war together and the fisherman catches both (idiom); fig. neighbors who can't agree lose out to a third party
麻雀雖小，五臟俱全	麻雀虽小，五脏俱全	má què suī xiǎo , wǔ zàng jù quán	The sparrow may be small but all its vital organs are there (idiom)./small but complete in every detail
黃鼠狼給雞拜年，沒安好心	黄鼠狼给鸡拜年，没安好心	huáng shǔ láng gěi jī bài nián , méi ān hǎo xīn	see 黃鼠狼給雞拜年|黄鼠狼给鸡拜年[huáng shǔ láng gěi jī bài nián]
龍生龍，鳳生鳳	龙生龙，凤生凤	lóng shēng lóng , fèng shēng fèng	lit. dragon births dragon, phoenix births phoenix (idiom)/fig. the apple doesn't fall far from the tree
