柴	柴	Chái	surname Chai
柴	柴	chái	firewood/lean (of meat)/thin (of a person)
劈柴	劈柴	pǐ chái	chopped wood/firewood
北柴胡	北柴胡	běi chái hú	honewort/Cryptotaenia japonica
大柴旦	大柴旦	Dà chái dàn	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hǎi xī Měng gǔ zú Zàng zú zì zhì zhōu], Qinghai
大柴旦行政區	大柴旦行政区	Dà chái dàn xíng zhèng qū	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hǎi xī Měng gǔ zú Zàng zú zì zhì zhōu], Qinghai
大柴旦行政委員會	大柴旦行政委员会	Dà chái dàn xíng zhèng wěi yuán huì	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州, Qinghai
大柴旦鎮	大柴旦镇	Dà chái dàn zhèn	Da Qaidam town in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hǎi xī Měng gǔ zú Zàng zú zì zhì zhōu], Qinghai
布拉柴維爾	布拉柴维尔	Bù lā chái wéi ěr	Brazzaville, capital of Congo
廢柴	废柴	fèi chái	(Cantonese) (coll.) good-for-nothing/loser
引柴	引柴	yǐn chái	kindling (to light a fire)
引火柴	引火柴	yǐn huǒ chái	kindling
打柴	打柴	dǎ chái	to chop firewood/to gather firewood
木柴	木柴	mù chái	firewood
木柴堆	木柴堆	mù chái duī	pile of firewood/funeral pyre
不當家不知柴米貴	不当家不知柴米贵	bù dāng jiā bù zhī chái mǐ guì	a person who doesn't manage a household would not be aware how expensive it is (idiom)
劈柴	劈柴	pī chái	to chop firewood/to split logs
柴可夫斯基	柴可夫斯基	Chái kě fū sī jī	Tchaikovsky (1840-1893), Russian composer
柴油	柴油	chái yóu	diesel fuel
柴油機	柴油机	chái yóu jī	diesel engine
柴油發動機	柴油发动机	chái yóu fā dòng jī	diesel engine
柴火	柴火	chái huo	firewood
柴田	柴田	Chái tián	Shibata (Japanese surname and place name)
柴禾妞	柴禾妞	chái hé niū	skinny and unsophisticated girl
柴科夫斯基	柴科夫斯基	Chái kē fū sī jī	Piotr Ilyich Tchaikowsky (1840-1893), Russian composer, composer of 6 symphonies and the opera Eugene Onegin
柴米油鹽	柴米油盐	chái mǐ yóu yán	lit. firewood, rice, oil and salt/fig. life's daily necessities
柴米油鹽醬醋茶	柴米油盐酱醋茶	chái mǐ yóu yán jiàng cù chá	lit. firewood, rice, oil, salt, soy, vinegar, and tea/fig. life's daily necessities
柴胡	柴胡	chái hú	Chinese thorowax (Bupleurum chinense)/root of Chinese thorowax (used in TCM)
柴草	柴草	chái cǎo	firewood
柴薪	柴薪	chái xīn	firewood
柴車	柴车	chái chē	simple and crude cart (or chariot)
柴達木	柴达木	Chái dá mù	Tsaidam or Qaidam basin (Mongolian: salt marsh), depression northeast of the Plateau of Tibet, located between the Qilian Shan and the Kunlun Shan at the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
柴達木盆地	柴达木盆地	Chái dá mù pén dì	Tsaidam or Qaidam basin (Mongolian: salt marsh), depression northeast of the Plateau of Tibet, located between the Qilian Shan and the Kunlun Shan at the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
柴門	柴门	chái mén	lit. woodcutter's family/humble background/poor family background
柴門小戶	柴门小户	chái mén xiǎo hù	woodcutter's cottage (idiom); poor person's hovel/fig. my humble house
柴雞	柴鸡	chái jī	a variety of free-range chicken, small with furless legs, laying smaller eggs
柴電機車	柴电机车	chái diàn jī chē	diesel-electric locomotive
柴魚片	柴鱼片	chái yú piàn	katsuobushi or dried bonito flakes (paper-thin shavings of preserved skipjack tuna)
滿口胡柴	满口胡柴	mǎn kǒu hú chái	to spout nonsense/to bullshit endlessly
火柴	火柴	huǒ chái	match (for lighting fire)/CL:根[gēn],盒[hé]
烈火乾柴	烈火干柴	liè huǒ gān chái	lit. intense fire to dry wood (idiom); inferno in a woodpile/fig. consuming passion between lovers
生物柴油	生物柴油	shēng wù chái yóu	biodiesel
留得青山在，不怕沒柴燒	留得青山在，不怕没柴烧	liú de qīng shān zài , bù pà méi chái shāo	While the green hills last, there'll be wood to burn (idiom). Where there's life there's hope.
眾人拾柴火焰高	众人拾柴火焰高	zhòng rén shí chái huǒ yàn gāo	when everybody gathers fuel, the flames are higher (idiom)/the more people, the more strength
磨刀不誤砍柴工	磨刀不误砍柴工	mó dāo bù wù kǎn chái gōng	lit. sharpening the axe won't make the wood-splitting take longer (idiom)/fig. time invested in preparations is not lost/a beard well lathered is half shaved
紙火柴	纸火柴	zhǐ huǒ chái	matches made of cardboard
蘆柴棒	芦柴棒	lú chái bàng	reed stem/(fig.) extremely skinny person
骨瘦如柴	骨瘦如柴	gǔ shòu rú chái	as thin as a match/emaciated (idiom)
